SPEECH 1
...Thank you so much. That's so nice. Isn't he a great guy. He doesn't get a fair press; he doesn't get it. It's just not fair. And I have to tell you I'm here, and very strongly here, because I have great respect for Steve King and have great respect likewise for Citizens United, David and everybody, and tremendous resect for the Tea Party. Also, also the people of Iowa. They have something in common. Hard-working people. They want to work, they want to make the country great. I love the people of Iowa. So that's the way it is. Very simple.
With that said, our country is really headed in the wrong direction with a president who is doing an absolutely terrible job. The world is collapsing around us, and many of the problems we've caused. Our president is either grossly incompetent, a word that more and more people are using, and I think I was the first to use it, or he has a completely different agenda than you want to know about, which could be possible. In any event, Washington is broken, and our country is in serious trouble and total disarray. Very simple. Politicians are all talk, no action. They are all talk and no action. And it's constant; it never ends.
And I'm a conservative, actually very conservative, and I'm a Republican. And I'm very disappointed by our Republican politicians. Because they let the president get away with absolute murder. You see always, oh we're going to do this, we're going to--. Nothing ever happens; nothing ever happens.
You look at Obamacare. A total catastrophe and by the way it really kicks in in '16 and it is going to be a disaster. People are closing up shops. Doctors are quitting the business. I have a friend of mine who's a doctor, a very good doctor, a very successful guy. He said, I have more accountants than I have patients. And he needs because it is so complicated and so terrible and he's never had that before and he's going to close up his business. And he was very successful guy. But it's happening more and more.
Look at Obamacare with a $5 billion website. I have many websites, many, many websites. They're all over the place. But for $10, okay?
Now everything about Obamacare was a lie. It was a filthy lie. And when you think about it, lies, I mean are they prosecuted? Does anyone do anything? And what are the Republican politicians doing about it? He lied about the doctor, he lied about every aspect. You can keep your plan. And you've all heard that hundreds of times. That's like the real estate location, location. I don't even say it anymore because everybody goes location, location. But you have heard this about Obamacare.
And it's disgraceful. It's a big, fat, horrible lie. Your deductibles are going through the roof. You're not going to get--unless you're hit by an army tank, you're not going to get coverage. And people that had plans that they loved, that they really loved, don't have those plans anymore. So it's a real, real disaster. And somebody has to repeal and replace Obamacare. And they have to do it fast and not just talk about it.
Now, we have to build a fence. And it's got to be a beauty. Who can build better than Trump? I build; it's what I do. I build; I build nice fences, but I build great buildings. Fences are easy, believe me. I saw the other day on television people just walking across the border. They're walking. The military is standing there holding guns and people are just walking right in front, coming into our country. It is so terrible. It is so unfair. It is so incompetent. And we don't have the best coming in. We have people that are criminals, we have people that are crooks. You can certainly have terrorists. You can certainly have Islamic terrorists. You can have anything coming across the border. We don't do anything about it. So I would say that if I run and if I win, I would certainly start by building a very, very powerful border.
Again, the politicians talk about it and they do nothing about it. Benghazi. Oh, Benghazi, Benghazi. Everything is Benghazi. What happens? Nothing.
IRS, e-mails. I get sued all the time, okay. I run a big business. You know I've always said it's very, very hard for a person who is very successful. I have done so many deals. Almost all of them have been tremendously successful. You'll see that when I file my statements. I mean you will see; you will be very proud of me, okay. But I've always said, and I said it strongly, it's very hard for somebody that does tremendous numbers of deals to run for politics, run for political office, any office, let alone president. Because you've done so much; you've beaten so many people; you've created so many-- Look, Obama, what did he do? No deal. He never did a deal. He did one deal. A house. And if you did that house you'd be in jail right now, okay. He got away with murder. But I can tell you, e-mails. IRS, the e-mails, thousands of them, they were lost; they were lost. If you were in my world you would know that e-mails can't be lost; they can't be lost. So why aren't our politicians finding out where those e-mails are?
They talk about executive orders and they talk about immigration and they talk about oh well we have to stop the border; that's the end of it. Believe me if I did something you would have a border that would be great. But they talk about it. And then you have a president that does an executive order. Nobody even heard of an executive order. He does it to let people come in and nobody does anything about executive orders. Why didn't they go to court and ask for declaratory judgment--which is something that when you know somebody is going to go after you and when it's in writing, and he's been saying it for a long time; he said, I'm going to approve this and that--why didn't our Republicans go in and get a declaratory judgment from the courts because you could have started the process six months earlier. Instead they have a weak lawsuit, that probably the time it's finished, I know so much about this, six, seven, eight years from now everyone's going to forget about it. We'll be into a different mode, and our country will be further destroyed. So we have to do something.
Jobs. China. I mean I've made so much money fighting against the Chinese. One of the best deals I ever did was against the Chinese, and they respect me for it. And I know them. And they say, we can't believe what we're getting away with. We can't believe how stupid your leaders are. They tell me that. Now they don't know I'm going to go and make a speech about it, but why not. But they tell me that.
And by the way, especially for the folks here that sell so much--goods, I mean the goods you sell are incredible; I don't know if you've been watching what's happening with the devaluations of so many countries. The Euro, China is going crazy with the devaluation. I never thought that they'd have the guts to do what they're doing. They are devaluing down to nothing. And what it's going to do is make it impossible for you to sell your product; it's going make it impossible for you to compete. And they're getting away with it. And they wouldn't have even done it two years ago, but now they feel we're so weak and we have so many different problems all over the world that they can do it. But you watch this devaluation of all of it. I mean the Euro, China, Mexico; everybody is devaluing. And when you hear the dollar is getting stronger, it sounds good. You know it's one of those things, sounds good. Be very careful. Be very careful. Because we're just going to lose more and more business to these foreign countries that really know what they are doing. They have it set. Don't forget another thing. China became the number one economic power a year ago. That was unthinkable; to think that that was going to happen. It was absolutely unthinkable. So it happened and it's very, very sad.
Now we spent $2 trillion in Iraq. We got nothing. They don't even respect us; they don't even care about us. Until they started getting their ass kicked, and call, oh please come back and help us. We want you out; then all of the sudden a new group forms, ISIS. By the way, you know how they formed. They took the oil. And for those of you that know and love Donald Trump--there are some of you--have I been saying for four years, keep the oil. So now ISIS has the oil. And the stuff that ISIS doesn't have, Iran is going to take. So we get nothing. We have $2 trillion and we have thousands of lives lost, thousands, and we have, what do we have. I mean I walk down the streets of New York and I see so many wounded warriors, incredible people. And we have to help those people, we have to help our vets, we have to help our military, we have to build our military. But, and we have to do it fast; we have to do it fast. We have incompetent people. They put people in charge that have no clue what they're doing. It needs money.
We have to make our country rich again so we do that, so we can save Social Security. 'Cause I'm not a cutter; I'll probably be the only Republican that does not want to cut Social Security. I'm not a cutter of Social Security; I want to make the country rich so that Social Security can be afforded, and Medicare and Medicaid. Get rid of the waste, get rid of the fraud, but you deserve your Social Security; you've been paying your Security. And like, I like Congressman Ryan, I like a lot of the people that are talking about you know cutting Social Security, and by the way the Democrats are eating your lunch on this issue. It's an issue that you're not going to win; you've got to make the country rich again and strong again so that you can afford it, and so you can afford military, and all of the other things.
Now, we have a game changer now, and the game changer is nuclear weapons. We really do have to get strong, and we have to get strong fast. We can't let Iran get a nuclear weapon. We can't do it. Can't do it. We cannot let that happen. You know in the old days, I would have said 100 years ago, 50 years ago, 30 years ago, pull out and let them fight each other.
Here we are in Syria. We're fighting people that want to overturn Syria. Think of this. We're fighting ISIS, but ISIS wants to overturn the government. Maybe you let them fight for a little while and then you take out the one that remains, okay. But think of it; think of it. ISIS is fighting them and we are bombing the hell out of them, but we want Syria to fall. There are so many things; there are so many things.
But the one game changer that we have to be careful with, that we never really had to think about too much before, other than a cetain number of years ago, is the nuclear. Nuclear today, it's not like soldiers in uniforms shooting rifles. You can take out the East Coast of this country, you can take out large sections of the Midwest, you can take out things that were unthinkable. The power. And we have to be in a position where that never, ever, ever, every happens. We've never had this before.
We have a situation in Afghanistan; we're spending tremendous amounts of money there. We're trying to do the right thing. We have leadership, again--no leadership respects us. You know, leadership of other places never respect stupid people, okay, that's one thing you're going to find. The same thing is happening there. And I never knew that Afghanistan until a year ago or so, Afghanistan has tremendous wealth in minerals, different, not the oil, but minerals. And we're fighting here, and on the other side of the mountain China is taking out all the minerals. They're taking it out. Trillion of dollars and millions of dollars of minerals. So we're fighting here and they are taking it out, looking at us and saying thank you very much sucker. It's really, really crazy.
So we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country. If we don't-- The other day in Ohio a bridge collapsed. Bridges are collapsing all over the country. The reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable, what's happening with our infrastructure.
I go to Saudi Arabia, I go to Dubai; I am doing big jobs in Dubai. I go to various different places. I go to China. They are building a bridge on every corner. They have bridges that make the George Washington Bridge like small time stuff. They're building the most incredible things you have ever seen. They are building airports in Qatar--which they like to say "cutter" but I've always said "qatar" so I'll keep it "qatar" what the hell. But they're building, they're building an airport and have just completed an airport the likes of which you have never seen, in Dubai an airport the likes of which you have never seen. And then I come back to LaGuardia where the runways have potholes. The place is falling apart. You go into the main terminal and they have a terraza floor that's so old it's falling apart. And they have a hole in it, and they replace it with asphalt. So you have a white terraza floor and they put asphalt all over the place. This is inside, not outside. And I just left Dubai where they have the most incredible thing you've ever seen. In fact my pilot said oh Mr. Trump this is such an honor. I said it's not an honor; they're just smart. But you look at LAX, and you look at Kennedy Airport, and you look at our airports generally, you look at our roadways where they're crumbling.
You look at all of the things that are bad-- I'll give you an example. And this isn't part of what I was going to say, but I ride down the highways and somebody makes those guard rails. You know the guard rails. The ones that sort of go like this [demonstrates with hand] that are always bent, rusted and horrible. Did you ever see more than like 20 feet which isn't corroded, or bent or the heat, if it gets too hot, it just crushes. Now they've been selling this thing for 25 years. Why doesn't someone stop them and get something that works. Because they don't know; they don't know what's happening. Somebody made a lot of money on that. They don't know what is happening.
So we have to make our country great again. We have to rebuild our country. And we have a long way to go. We are just in such serious trouble because we owe so much money. Now we owe it to the Chinese, a lot of it. We owe it to other countries. They're the ones that hold the debt. And then we give them money. We have countries that we owe money to and yet we're giving them subsidies. I just ordered thousands of television sets and between LG and Samsung and I mean you know-- No American company comes to see and comes to bid. It's South Korea, and whenever they have a problem we send the battleships, we send the destroyers, we send our airplanes, we're going to protect them. What are we doing; why aren't they paying us? Why aren't they paying us; what are we doing? I order thousands and thousands of sets all the time, for some reason it's South Korea. You know whether it's China, South Korea, but in this case televisions, South Korea. Why aren't they doing something to justify what is going on?
Now, we have a very important election coming up. We have a presidential election coming up. And we have some good people. Nobody like Trump of course, but these are minor details. We have some good people.
It' can't be Mitt because Mitt ran and failed. He failed. I mean I liked him. Look--like him, dislike him--the 47% statement that he made, that's not going away. The Romneycare from Massachusetts, that's not going away. What do you think they're going to say oh we won't bring that up this time. It's not fair because it was a long t-- That doesn't work. But more importantly, he choked. Something happened to him in the last month. He had that election won. And let me tell you something. That election, sort of like a dealmaker that can't close the deal. I know many of those guys; they get it up to the one-yard line, they go ah, ah I can't close it. Or a golfer that can't sink the three-footer to win the tournament. And there are many of them. Most people are like that; I mean most people are like that. You can't give somebody another chance, 'cause actually I think this election is tougher to win than beating a failed president. I really do. I think beating Obama would have been a much easier one than the one that's coming up, which is sad to say but true. So you can't have Romney. He choked.
You can't have Bush. The last thing we need is another Bush. Now I made that statement very strongly, and now every one says the last thing-- You know they copied it. I'll be accused of copying the statement; that's the bad thing. But I said it. I was the one that said it first, and I mean it. The last thing we need is another Bush. Now, he's totally in favor of Common Core; that's a disaster, that's bad, it should be local and all of that. But he's totally in favor of Common Core. He's very, very weak on immigration. Don't forget--remember his statement--they come for love. I say, what? Come for love? You've got these people coming, half of them are criminals. They're coming for love? They're coming for a lot of other reasons, and it's not love. And when he runs, you got to remember his brother really gave us Obama. I was never a big fan, but his brother gave us Obama. 'Cause Abraham Lincoln coming home back from the dead could not have won the election because it was going so badly and the economy was just absolutely in shambles that last couple of months. And then he appointed Justice Roberts. And Jeb wanted Justice Roberts. And Justice Roberts basically approved Obamacare in a shocking decision that nobody believes. So you can't have Jeb Bush. And he's going to lose aside from that; he's not going to win. So Mitt and--you just can't have those two. That's it. That's it. It's so simple.
So just in summing up and I just wrote a few of these little points down because it's very important. And I watch these teleprompters, and by the way I think any president candidate that runs should not be allowed to use a teleprompter, because we got one that uses teleprompters. And people say, oh he is so quick on his feet. He is reading it. I mean give me a break. Everything is read. You don't really test the mettle of a man or a woman unless they can get up on stage and talk. And that's what we ended up getting--the king of teleprompters. But, so when I look at these things here I say you know what, it's so much easier, it would be so nice, just bah, pa, bah, pa, bah, bing, bing, bing. No problems, get off stage, everybody falls asleep and that's the end of that. But we have to do something about these teleprompters.
But in looking at these situations-- I built an incredible company. And you'll see that. An incredible company; a wonderful company. I employ thousands of people and I love doing what I'm doing. And in a certain way, I wish I weren't doing this, but our country is in such trouble and would be so easy to fix. We have such great potential.
So if I run for president and if I win, I would totally succeed in:
creating jobs;
defeating ISIS and stopping the Islamic terrorists--and you have to do that;
reducing the budget deficit--so important, have to do it;
securing our Southern border--and I mean seriously securing it;
stopping nuclear weapons in Iran and elsewhere;
saving Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting it down to the bone because it's not fair to people that have been paying for their whole lives and other people and it's not fair to future people coming up, and we can do it;
repealing Obamacare and replacing it with something far better for the people, and far less expensive, both for the people and for the country. And believe me there are plans that are so much better for everybody. And everybody can be covered. I'm not saying leave 50-percent of the people out. Everybody can be c-- This plan is just a basic disaster. Nobody knows. As bad as the website was, this is how bad the plan itself is;
fixing our country's infrastructure, our bridges, our schools, our highways, our airports. And that, I can tell you, nobody is close to Trump. I just got the best hotel in North America. I'm building, which is sort of interesting, think of this one. I'm building one of the great hotels of the world on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite the White House, between the White House and Congress. Right on Penn.-- The Old Post Office site, and I got it from Obama. Do you believe that? And everybody wanted it. So, I can't believe it myself. But it's going to be fantastic;
and so many other things.
I know what needs to be done to make America great again. We can make this country great again. The potential is enormous. And I am serious thinking of running for president because I can do the job.
Thank you all very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Beautiful. Thank you.
SPEECH 2
Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for National Interest for honoring me with this invitation. It truly is a great honor. I’d like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country, one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.
It’s time to shake the rust off America’s foreign policy. It’s time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold, something we have to do. The direction I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign policy will always put the interests of the American people and American security above all else. It has to be first. Has to be.
That will be the foundation of every single decision that I will make.
America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration. But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly take a look back. We have a lot to be proud of.
In the 1940s we saved the world. The greatest generation beat back the Nazis and Japanese imperialists. Then we saved the world again. This time, from totalitarianism and communism. The Cold War lasted for decades but, guess what, we won and we won big. Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan, our great president, when he said, tear down this wall.
History will not forget what he did. A very special man and president. Unfortunately, after the Cold War our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense. Logic was replaced with foolishness and arrogance, which led to one foreign policy disaster after another.
They just kept coming and coming. We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Libya, to President Obama’s line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have helped to throw the region into chaos and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and prosper. Very bad. It all began with a dangerous idea that we could make western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interests in becoming a western democracy.
We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism, thousands of Americans and just killed be lives, lives, lives wasted. Horribly wasted. Many trillions of dollars were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush in and fill that void much to their really unjust enrichment.
They have benefited so much, so sadly, for us. Our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster. No vision. No purpose. No direction. No strategy. Today I want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.
First, our resources are totally over extended. President Obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. He’s crippled us with wasteful spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders. Our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year.
We’re rebuilding other countries while weakening our own. Ending the theft of American jobs will give us resources we need to rebuild our military, which has to happen and regain our financial independence and strength. I am the only person running for the presidency who understands this and this is a serious problem.
I’m the only one — believe me, I know them all, I’m the only one who knows how to fix it.
Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share, and I’ve been talking about this recently a lot. Our allies must contribute toward their financial, political, and human costs, have to do it, of our tremendous security burden. But many of them are simply not doing so.
They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us. In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries besides America, are spending the minimum required 2 percent of GDP on defense. We have spent trillions of dollars over time on planes, missiles, ships, equipment, building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe and Asia.
The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense, and if not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves. We have no choice.
The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security. A Trump administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded, and funded beautifully.
Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can’t depend on us. We’ve had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies, something that we’ve never seen before in the history of our country. He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms even before the ink was dry. Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon, cannot be allowed. Remember that, cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.
And under a Trump administration, will never, ever be allowed to have that nuclear weapon.
All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Iran’s treatment of our ten captured sailors — so vividly I remember that day. In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table.
When the other side knows you’re not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win — you just can’t win. At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them. You’ve made that agreement, you have to stand by it and the world will be a better place. President Obama gutted our missile defense program and then abandoned our missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic. He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel, and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.
Israel, our great friend and the one true democracy in the Middle East has been snubbed and criticized by an administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel, a force for justice and peace, for acting as an impatient peace area in the region.
President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender love and care and made it a great power. Iran has, indeed, become a great, great power in just a very short period of time, because of what we’ve done. All of the expense and all at the expense of Israel, our allies in the region and very importantly, the United States itself.
We’ve picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they’re starting to look elsewhere for help. Remember that. Not good.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us. In fact, they’re just as confused as our allies, but in an even bigger problem is they don’t take us seriously anymore. The truth is they don’t respect us. When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, no leader was there, nobody, to greet him.
Perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One. Then amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia. It’s called no respect. Absolutely no respect.
Do you remember when the president made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark, to get the Olympics for our country, and after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth — fourth place? The president of the United States making this trip — unprecedented — comes in fourth place. He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment. We were laughed at all over the world, as we have been many, many times.
The list of humiliations go on and on and on. President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands further and further with its nuclear reach. Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade deals and apply leverage on China necessary to rein in North Korea. We have the leverage. We have the power over China, economic power, and people don’t understand it. And with that economic power, we can rein in and we can get them to do what they have to do with North Korea, which is totally out of control.
He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and engaged in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies. We’ve let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything, and they do. They do at will. It always happens. If President Obama’s goal had been to weaken America, he could not have done a better job.
Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals. Since the end of the Cold War and the breakup of the Soviet Union, we’ve lacked a coherent foreign policy. One day, we’re bombing Libya and getting rid of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians. The next day, we’re watching the same civilians suffer while that country falls and absolutely falls apart. Lives lost, massive moneys lost. The world is a different place.
We’re a humanitarian nation, but the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions will be weakness, confusion and disarray, a mess. We’ve made the Middle East more unstable and chaotic than ever before. We left Christians subject to intense persecution and even genocide.
We have done nothing to help the Christians, nothing, and we should always be ashamed for that, for that lack of action. Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria have helped unleash ISIS, and we’re in a war against radical Islam, but President Obama won’t even name the enemy, and unless you name the enemy, you will never ever solve the problem.
Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words radical Islam, even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees coming into our country. After Secretary Clinton’s failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep. Incredible.
Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie, proven to be absolutely a total lie. Our ambassador was murdered and our secretary of state misled the nation. And, by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o’clock in the morning. And now ISIS is making millions and millions of dollars a week selling Libya oil. And you know what? We don’t blockade, we don’t bomb, we don’t do anything about it. It’s almost as if our country doesn’t even know what’s happening, which could be a fact and could be true. This will all change when I become president.
To our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is going to be reliable again. It’s going to be a great and reliable ally again. It’s going to be a friend again. We’re going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests and the shared interests of our allies.
We’re getting out of the nation-building business and instead focusing on creating stability in the world. Our moments of greatest strength came when politics ended at the water’s edge. We need a new rational American foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, and it will be by both parties — Democrats, Republicans, independents, everybody, as well as by our close allies.
This is how we won the Cold War and it’s how we will win our new future struggles, which may be many, which may be complex, but we will win if I become president.
First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam. Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the United States and indeed the world. Events may require the use of military force, but it’s also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold War.
In this, we’re going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence, attacks and everything else. It is a dangerous world, more dangerous now than it has ever been.
We should work — thank you.
We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street. They must also be good to us. Remember that. They have to be good to us, no longer one way. It’s now two-way. And remember, us and all we’re doing, they have to appreciate what we’ve done to them. We’re going to help, but they have to appreciate what we’ve done for them. The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens and dozens more. We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies. We have no idea where these people are coming from. There’s no documentation. There’s no paperwork. There’s nothing. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant.
A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or frankly, much worse. All you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and September 11th, one of the great catastrophes, in my opinion, the single greatest military catastrophe in the history of our country; worse than Pearl Harbor because you take a look at what’s happened, and citizens were attacked, as opposed to the military being attacked — one of the true great catastrophes.
And then there’s ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are numbered. I won’t tell them where and I won’t tell them how. We must...
... we must as a nation be more unpredictable. We are totally predictable. We tell everything. We’re sending troops. We tell them. We’re sending something else. We have a news conference. We have to be unpredictable. And we have to be unpredictable starting now.
But they’re going to be gone. ISIS will be gone if I’m elected president. And they’ll be gone quickly. They will be gone very, very quickly.
Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy. The Russians and Chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look at what’s happened to us. Our nuclear weapons arsenal, our ultimate deterrent, has been allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal. And it has to happen immediately. Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today. The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 ships during this same period of time. The Air Force is about one-third smaller than 1991. Pilots flying B-52s in combat missions today. These planes are older than virtually everybody in this room.
And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense budget that in real dollars, cuts nearly 25 percent from what we were spending in 2011. Our military is depleted and we’re asking our generals and military leaders to worry about global warming.
We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest, single investment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment known to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned, and I mean unquestioned, by anybody and everybody.
But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mounting debt, right now we have so much debt that nobody even knows how to address the problem. But I do. No one dollar can be wasted. Not one single dollar can we waste. We’re also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again. And to put Americans first again.
This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and higher pay that will grow our tax revenues, increase our economic might as a nation, make us strong financially again. So, so important. We need to think smart about areas where our technological superiority, and nobody comes close, gives us an edge.
This includes 3D printing, artificial intelligence and cyber warfare. A great country also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute, and I mean absolute. A Trump administration will give our servicemen and women the best equipment and support in the world when they serve and where they serve. And the best care in the world when they return as veterans and they come back home to civilian life. Our veterans...
Our veterans have not been treated fairly or justly. These are our great people and we must treat them fairly. We must even treat them really, really well and that will happen under the Trump administration.
Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests. Businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do countries. Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania — and this was a horrible time for us — were attacked. and 17 brave sailors were killed on the U.S.S. Cole.
And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China into the World Trade organization, which has been a total disaster for the United States. Frankly, we spent more time on that than we did in stopping Al Qaeda. We even had an opportunity to take out Osama bin Laden and we didn’t do it
And then we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Again, the worst attack on our country in its history. Our foreign policy goals must be based on America’s core national security interests. And the following will be my priorities.
In the Middle East our goals must be, and I mean must be, to defeat terrorists and promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clearsighted about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies. And believe me, we have groups that no matter what you do, they will be the enemy.: We have to be smart enough to recognize who those groups are, who those people are, and not help them. And we must only be generous to those that prove they are indeed our friends.
We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes, but we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on shared interests.
Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism. I believe an easing of tensions, and improved relations with Russia from a position of strength only is possible, absolutely possible. Common sense says this cycle, this horrible cycle of hostility must end and ideally will end soon. Good for both countries.
Some say the Russians won’t be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can’t make a deal under my administration, a deal that’s great — not good, great — for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. It’s as simple as that. We’re going to find out.
Fixing our relations with China is another important step — and really toward creating an even more prosperous period of time. China respects strength and by letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never before, we have lost all of their respect.
We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit that we have to find a way quickly, and I mean quickly, to balance. A strong and smart America is an America that will find a better friend in China, better than we have right now. Look at what China is doing in the South China Sea. They’re not supposed to be doing it.
No respect for this country or this president. We can both benefit or we can both go our separate ways. If need be, that’s what’s going to have to happen.
After I’m elected president, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges. For instance, we will discuss how we can upgrade NATO’s outdated mission and structure, grown out of the Cold War to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Islamic terrorism.
I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But if America fights, it must only fight to win.
I will never sent our finest into battle unless necessary, and I mean absolutely necessary, and will only do so if we have a plan for victory with a capital V.
Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction. The best way to achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign policy. With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we’ve had the exact opposite — a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy, one that has blazed the path of destruction in its wake.
After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far worst shape in the Middle East than ever, ever before. I challenge anyone to explain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama/Clinton. It has been a complete and total disaster.
I will also be prepared to deploy America’s economic resources. Financial leverage and sanctions can be very, very persuasive, but we need to use them selectively and with total determination. Our power will be used if others do not play by the rules. In other words, if they do not treat us fairly. Our friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce that line in the sand. Believe me.
However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A superpower understands that caution and restraint are really truly signs of strength. Although not in government service, I was totally against the war in Iraq, very proudly, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sadly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary has been has been Iran, who is systematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their very rich oil reserves, something it has wanted to do for decades.
And now, to top it off, we have ISIS. My goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations. That’s why I also look and have to look for talented experts with approaches and practical ideas, rather than surrounding myself with those who have perfect résumés but very little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war. We have to look to new people.
We have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don’t know what they’re doing, even though they may look awfully good writing in The New York Times or being watched on television.
Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institutions. Instead of trying to spread universal values that not everybody shares or wants, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the world than military interventions.
These are my goals as president. I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans, whatever their party, can support, so important, and which our friends and allies will respect and totally welcome. The world must know that we do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friends and when old friends become allies, that’s what we want. We want them to be our allies.
We want the world to be — we want to bring peace to the world. Too much destruction out there, too many destructive weapons. The power of weaponry is the single biggest problem that we have today in the world.
To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its leadership. Again, many Americans must wonder why we our politicians seem more interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than in defending their own. Americans.
Americans must know that we’re putting the American people first again on trade.
So true. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy. The jobs, incomes and security of the American worker will always be my first priority.
No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both our friends and our enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fair to them, must start doing the same. We will no longer surrender this country or its people to the false song of globalism. The nation-state remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring America down and will never enter.
And under my administration, we will never enter America into any agreement that reduces our ability to control our own affairs.
NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the United States and has emptied our states — literally emptied our states of our manufacturing and our jobs. And I’ve just gotten to see it. I’ve toured Pennsylvania. I’ve toured New York. I’ve toured so many of the states. They have been cleaned out. Their manufacturing is gone.
Never again, only the reverse — and I have to say this strongly — never again; only the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. There will be consequences for the companies that leave the United States only to exploit it later. They fire the people. They take advantage of the United States. There will be consequences for those companies. Never again.
Under a Trump administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of a foreign country.
I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests. I will be America’s greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritage that makes us who we are.
The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest. America will continue and continue forever to play the role of peacemaker. We will always help save lives and indeed humanity itself, but to play the role, we must make America strong again.
And always — always, always, we must make, and we have to look at it from every angle, and we have no choice, we must make America respected again. We must make America truly wealthy again. And we must — we have to and we will make America great again. And if we do that — and if we do that, perhaps this century can be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Thank you very much, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.
SPEECH 3
A hand with little fingers coming out of a stem. Like, little. Look at my hands. They’re fine. Nobody other than Graydon Carter years ago used to use that. My hands are normal hands. During a debate, he was losing, and he said, "Oh, he has small hands and therefore, you know what that means." This was not me. This was Rubio that said, "He has small hands and you know what that means." Okay? So, he started it. So, what I said a couple of days later ... and what happened is I was on line shaking hands with supporters, and one of supporters got up and he said, "Mr. Trump, you have strong hands. You have good-sized hands." And then another one would say, "You have great hands, Mr. Trump, I had no idea." I said, "What do you mean?" He said, "I thought you were like deformed, and I thought you had small hands." I had fifty people ... Is that a correct statement? I mean people were writing, "How are Mr. Trump’s hands?" My hands are fine. You know, my hands are normal. Slightly large, actually. In fact, I buy a slightly smaller than large glove, okay? No, but I did this because everybody was saying to me, "Oh, your hands are very nice. They are normal." So Rubio, in a debate, said, because he had nothing else to say ... now I was hitting him pretty hard. He wanted to do his Don Rickles stuff and it didn’t work out. Obviously, it didn’t work too well. But one of the things he said was "He has small hands and therefore, you know what that means, he has small something else." You can look it up. I didn’t say it.
 I don’t want people to go around thinking that I have a problem. I’m telling you, Ruth, I had so many people. I would say 25, 30 people would tell me ... every time I’d shake people’s hand, "Oh, you have nice hands." Why shouldn’t I? And, by the way, by saying that I solved the problem. Nobody questions ... I even held up my hands, and said, "Look, take a look at that hand."
 I don’t know if it was presidential, honestly, whether it is or not. He said, ‘Donald Trump has small hands and therefore he has small something else.’ I didn’t say that. And all I did is when he failed, when he was failing, when he was, when Christie made him look bad, I gave him the– a little recap and I said, and I said, and I had this big strong powerful hand ready to grab him, because I thought he was going to faint. And everybody took it fine. Whether it was presidential or not I can’t tell you. I can just say that what he said was a lie. And everybody, they wanted to do stories on my hands; after I said that, they never did. And then I held up the hand, I showed people the hand. You know, when I’ve got a big audience. So yeah, I think it’s not a question of presidential ...
SPEECH 4
 Oh boy. We love Nevada. We love Nevada. Thank you. Thank you. Oh this is a great place. Thank you very much. Great evening. We will be celebrating for a long time tonight. Have a good time. Have a good time.
You know we weren’t expecting—a couple of months ago, we weren’t expecting to win this one, you know that, right? We weren’t. Of course if you listen to the pundits, we weren’t expected to win too much, and now we’re winning, winning, winning the country. And soon the country’s going to start winning, winning, winning. So I want to thank the volunteers. They’ve been unbelievable. These people, they work like endlessly, endlessly. We’re not going to forget it. And we’ve had some great numbers coming out of Texas, and amazing numbers coming out of Tennessee and Georgia and Arkansas and then in a couple of weeks later Florida. We love Florida so. We’re going to do very well in Ohio. We’re beating the governor. It’s always nice to be beating the governor. And Michigan—the whole thing. It’s going to be an amazing two months.
We might not even need the two months, folks, to be honest. So tonight we had 45 to 46%, and tomorrow you’d hear them say, you know, if they could just take the other candidates and add them up, and if you could add them up because you know the other candidates amount to 55%. So if they could—they keep forgetting that when people drop out, we’re going to get a lot of votes. You know they keep forgetting.
So I want to begin by thanking my boys, Eric has been all over the place making speeches. He’s getting better than me so I’m a little jealous. And Don went to _____, you were all over, right?
He loves the rifle stuff. This is serious rifle. This is serious NRA, both of them, both of them. We love the Second Amendment folks. Nobody loves it more than us, so just remember that.
And Corey and Hope, the staff, the whole group, and Charles and Dan and what a group we have. I want to just thank a couple of friends of mine that are here, the owner of this incredible hotel, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin, stand up. Great guy. Phil said, "Donald,"—like for the last three months he’s driving me crazy, he said—"Donald, I want to put $10 million into your campaign." I said, "Phil I don’t want your money. I don’t want to do it. I’m self funding." Every time I see him. It’s hard for me to turn down money because that’s what I’ve done in my whole life. I grab and grab and grab. You know I get greedy. I want money, money.
I’ll tell you what we’re going to do, right? We get greedy, right? Now we’re going to get greedy for the United States. We’re going to grab and grab and grab. We’re going to bring in so much money and so much everything. We’re going to make America great again, folks, I’m telling you folks, we’re going to make America great again.
And another great friend of mine, someone respected by everybody, a great friend of Phil too—Mr. and Mrs. Steve Wynn. Stand up, Steve. Stand up. Two great people. Steve is always calling. He’s always got advice, right Steve? "Donald I think you should do this and that." His advice I like to listen to, I’ll be honest. So Phil and Steve and families, we appreciate it. You’ve been great friends. Thank you, thank you.
So this was very exciting tonight. But I’ll tell you it looks like we won by a lot evangelicals. I love evangelicals, and I have to tell you pastor [Robert] Jeffress has been so incredible on television and elsewhere. He has been great. And as you know Liberty University—do we love Liberty University? Huh? Jerry Falwell Jr., an unbelievable guy, and he has been with us and with us from the beginning, and I want to thank Jerry and his family. It’s been amazing, the relationship. So we won the evangelicals.
We won with young. We won with old. We won with highly educated. We won with poorly educated. I love the poorly educated. We’re the smartest people, we’re the most loyal people, and you know what I’m happy about? Because I’ve been saying it for a long time. 46% were the Hispanics—46%, No. 1 one with Hispanics. I’m really happy about that.
So I’m very proud of you, this is an amazing night. I love the country, I love the country. We’re going in the wrong direction. We’re going to keep—as you know Gitmo, we’re keeping that open, and we’re going to load it up with bad dudes. We’re going to load it up w a lot of bad dudes out there. We’re going to have our borders nice and strong. We’re going to build the wall, you know that. We’re going to build the wall. And I have a lot of respect from Mexico, and you just heard we won Hispanics. But let me tell you Mexico is going to pay for the wall, right? It’s going to happen. It’s going to happen. They know it. I know it. We all know it.
We have a tremendous deficit. We have a trade deficit with Mexico. They’ll pay for the wall. They’ll be very happy about it. Believe me. I’ll talk to them. They’re going to be very, very thrilled. They’re going to be thrilled to be paying for the wall.
We’re going to be the smart people. We’re not going to be the people that get pushed around all over the place. We’re going to be the smart people. You’re going to be proud of your president, and you’re going to be even prouder of your country, OK?
So tonight folks, this was a great evening. I love this place. I love this state. I love Las Vegas. I have spent and invested so much money over here. Trump International Hotel—I keep telling Steve we have the best hotel in Las Vegas. He’s fighting me all the time. But that’s OK. But I just want to say it’s a great state, and they have great people. And I was so proud. You know, I went to caucus. I was all over the place tonight. The people are amazing. The enthusiasm, it was unbelievable to see.
The people of this country are absolutely amazing. I love you folks very much. Remember: Make America great again. We’re going to do it, and it’s going to happen fast. Thank you very much everybody. We love you. We love you.
SPEECH 5
Wow. Whoa. That is some group of people. Thousands.
So nice, thank you very much. That’s really nice. Thank you. It’s great to be at Trump Tower. It’s great to be in a wonderful city, New York. And it’s an honor to have everybody here. This is beyond anybody’s expectations. There’s been no crowd like this.
And, I can tell, some of the candidates, they went in. They didn’t know the air-conditioner didn’t work. They sweated like dogs.
They didn’t know the room was too big, because they didn’t have anybody there. How are they going to beat ISIS? I don’t think it’s gonna happen.
Our country is in serious trouble. We don’t have victories anymore. We used to have victories, but we don’t have them. When was the last time anybody saw us beating, let’s say, China in a trade deal? They kill us. I beat China all the time. All the time.
When did we beat Japan at anything? They send their cars over by the millions, and what do we do? When was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in Tokyo? It doesn’t exist, folks. They beat us all the time.
When do we beat Mexico at the border? They’re laughing at us, at our stupidity. And now they are beating us economically. They are not our friend, believe me. But they’re killing us economically.
The U.S. has become a dumping ground for everybody else’s problems.
SPEECH 6
Thank you. It’s true, and these are the best and the finest. When Mexico sends its people, they’re not sending their best. They’re not sending you. They’re not sending you. They’re sending people that have lots of problems, and they’re bringing those problems with us. They’re bringing drugs. They’re bringing crime. They’re rapists. And some, I assume, are good people.
oh And it only makes common sense. It only makes common sense. They’re sending us not the right people.
It’s coming from more than Mexico. It’s coming from all over South and Latin America, and it’s coming probably — probably — from the Middle East. But we don’t know. Because we have no protection and we have no competence, we don’t know what’s happening. And it’s got to stop and it’s got to stop fast.
Islamic terrorism is eating up large portions of the Middle East. They’ve become rich. I’m in competition with them.
They just built a hotel in Syria. Can you believe this? They built a hotel. When I have to build a hotel, I pay interest. They don’t have to pay interest, because they took the oil that, when we left Iraq, I said we should’ve taken.
So now ISIS has the oil, and what they don’t have, Iran has. And in 19 — and I will tell you this, and I said it very strongly, years ago, I said — and I love the military, and I want to have the strongest military that we’ve ever had, and we need it more now than ever. But I said, "Don’t hit Iraq," because you’re going to totally destabilize the Middle East. Iran is going to take over the Middle East, Iran and somebody else will get the oil, and it turned out that Iran is now taking over Iraq. Think of it. Iran is taking over Iraq, and they’re taking it over big league.
We spent $2 trillion in Iraq, $2 trillion. We lost thousands of lives, thousands in Iraq. We have wounded soldiers, who I love, I love — they’re great — all over the place, thousands and thousands of wounded soldiers.
And we have nothing. We can’t even go there. We have nothing. And every time we give Iraq equipment, the first time a bullet goes off in the air, they leave it.
Last week, I read 2,300 Humvees — these are big vehicles — were left behind for the enemy. 2,000? You would say maybe two, maybe four? 2,300 sophisticated vehicles, they ran, and the enemy took them.
Last quarter, it was just announced our gross domestic product — a sign of strength, right? But not for us. It was below zero. Whoever heard of this? It’s never below zero.
Our labor participation rate was the worst since 1978. But think of it, GDP below zero, horrible labor participation rate.
And our real unemployment is anywhere from 18 to 20 percent. Don’t believe the 5.6. Don’t believe it.
That’s right. A lot of people up there can’t get jobs. They can’t get jobs, because there are no jobs, because China has our jobs and Mexico has our jobs. They all have jobs.
But the real number, the real number is anywhere from 18 to 19 and maybe even 21 percent, and nobody talks about it, because it’s a statistic that’s full of nonsense.
Our enemies are getting stronger and stronger by the way, and we as a country are getting weaker. Even our nuclear arsenal doesn’t work.
It came out recently they have equipment that is 30 years old. They don’t know if it worked. And I thought it was horrible when it was broadcast on television, because boy, does that send signals to Putin and all of the other people that look at us and they say, "That is a group of people, and that is a nation that truly has no clue. They don’t know what they’re doing. They don’t know what they’re doing."
We have a disaster called the big lie: Obamacare. Obamacare.
Yesterday, it came out that costs are going for people up 29, 39, 49, and even 55 percent, and deductibles are through the roof. You have to be hit by a tractor, literally, a tractor, to use it, because the deductibles are so high, it’s virtually useless. It’s virtually useless. It is a disaster.TRUMP: And remember the $5 billion Web site? $5 billion we spent on a Web site, and to this day it doesn’t work. A $5 billion Web site.
If and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS, which as everyone knows is ISIS’s ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the Pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been President because this would not have happened. ISIS would have been eradicated unlike what is happening now with our all talk, no action politicians.
The Mexican government and its leadership has made many disparaging remarks about me to the Pope, because they want to continue to rip off the United States, both on trade and at the border, and they understand I am totally wise to them. The Pope only heard one side of the story - he didn’t see the crime, the drug trafficking and the negative economic impact the current policies have on the United States. He doesn’t see how Mexican leadership is outsmarting President Obama and our leadership in every aspect of negotiation.
For a religious leader to question a person’s faith is disgraceful. I am proud to be a Christian and as President I will not allow Christianity to be consistently attacked and weakened, unlike what is happening now, with our current President. No leader, especially a religious leader, should have the right to question another man’s religion or faith. They are using the Pope as a pawn and they should be ashamed of themselves for doing so, especially when so many lives are involved and when illegal immigration is so rampant.
I have so many Web sites, I have them all over the place. I hire people, they do a Web site. It costs me $3. $5 billion Web site.
Well, you need somebody, because politicians are all talk, no action. Nothing’s gonna get done. They will not bring us — believe me — to the promised land. They will not.
As an example, I’ve been on the circuit making speeches, and I hear my fellow Republicans. And they’re wonderful people. I like them. They all want me to support them. They don’t know how to bring it about. They come up to my office. I’m meeting with three of them in the next week. And they don’t know — "Are you running? Are you not running? Could we have your support? What do we do? How do we do it?"
I like them. And I hear their speeches. And they don’t talk jobs and they don’t talk China. When was the last time you heard China is killing us? They’re devaluing their currency to a level that you wouldn’t believe. It makes it impossible for our companies to compete, impossible. They’re killing us.
But you don’t hear that from anybody else. You don’t hear it from anybody else. And I watch the speeches.
Thank you.
I watch the speeches of these people, and they say the sun will rise, the moon will set, all sorts of wonderful things will happen. And people are saying, "What’s going on? I just want a job. Just get me a job. I don’t need the rhetoric. I want a job."
And that’s what’s happening. And it’s going to get worse, because remember, Obamacare really kicks in in ’16, 2016. Obama is going to be out playing golf. He might be on one of my courses. I would invite him, I actually would say. I have the best courses in the world, so I’d say, you what, if he wants to — I have one right next to the White House, right on the Potomac. If he’d like to play, that’s fine.
In fact, I’d love him to leave early and play, that would be a very good thing.
But Obamacare kicks in in 2016. Really big league. It is going to be amazingly destructive. Doctors are quitting. I have a friend who’s a doctor, and he said to me the other day, "Donald, I never saw anything like it. I have more accountants than I have nurses. It’s a disaster. My patients are beside themselves. They had a plan that was good. They have no plan now."
We have to repeal Obamacare, and it can be — and — and it can be replaced with something much better for everybody. Let it be for everybody. But much better and much less expensive for people and for the government. And we can do it.
So I’ve watched the politicians. I’ve dealt with them all my life. If you can’t make a good deal with a politician, then there’s something wrong with you. You’re certainly not very good. And that’s what we have= representing us. They will never make America great again. They don’t even have a chance. They’re controlled fully — they’re controlled fully by the lobbyists, by the donors, and by the special interests, fully.
Yes, they control them. Hey, I have lobbyists. I have to tell you. I have lobbyists that can produce anything for me. They’re great. But you know what? it won’t happen. It won’t happen. Because we have to stop doing things for some people, but for this country, it’s destroying our country. We have to stop, and it has to stop now.
We need a leader that can bring back our jobs, can bring back our manufacturing, can bring back our military, can take care of our vets. Our vets have been abandoned.
And we also need a cheerleader.
You know, when President Obama was elected, I said, "Well, the one thing, I think he’ll do well. I think he’ll be a great cheerleader for the country. I think he’d be a great spirit."
He was vibrant. He was young. I really thought that he would be a great cheerleader.
He’s not a leader. That’s true. You’re right about that.
But he wasn’t a cheerleader. He’s actually a negative force. He’s been a negative force. He wasn’t a cheerleader; he was the opposite.
We need somebody that can take the brand of the United States and make it great again. It’s not great again.
We need — we need somebody — we need somebody that literally will take this country and make it great again. We can do that.
And, I will tell you, I love my life. I have a wonderful family. They’re saying, "Dad, you’re going to do something that’s going to be so tough."
You know, all of my life, I’ve heard that a truly successful person, a really, really successful person and even modestly successful cannot run for public office. Just can’t happen. And yet that’s the kind of mindset that you need to make this country great again.
So ladies and gentlemen...
I am officially running...
... for president of the United States, and we are going to make our country great again.
It can happen. Our country has tremendous potential. We have tremendous people.
We have people that aren’t working. We have people that have no incentive to work. But they’re going to have incentive to work, because the greatest social program is a job. And they’ll be proud, and they’ll love it, and they’ll make much more than they would’ve ever made, and they’ll be — they’ll be doing so well, and we’re going to be thriving as a country, thriving. It can happen.
I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. I tell you that.
I’ll bring back our jobs from China, from Mexico, from Japan, from so many places. I’ll bring back our jobs, and I’ll bring back our money.
Right now, think of this: We owe China $1.3 trillion. We owe Japan more than that. So they come in, they take our jobs, they take our money, and then they loan us back the money, and we pay them in interest, and then the dollar goes up so their deal’s even better.
How stupid are our leaders? How stupid are these politicians to allow this to happen? How stupid are they?
I’m going to tell you — thank you. I’m going to tell you a couple of stories about trade, because I’m totally against the trade bill for a number of reasons.
Number one, the people negotiating don’t have a clue. Our president doesn’t have a clue. He’s a bad negotiator.
He’s the one that did Bergdahl. We get Bergdahl, they get five killer terrorists that everybody wanted over there.
We get Bergdahl. We get a traitor. We get a no-good traitor, and they get the five people that they wanted for years, and those people are now back on the battlefield trying to kill us. That’s the negotiator we have.
Take a look at the deal he’s making with Iran. He makes that deal, Israel maybe won’t exist very long. It’s a disaster, and we have to protect Israel. But...
So we need people — I’m a free trader. But the problem with free trade is you need really talented people to negotiate for you. If you don’t have talented people, if you don’t have great leadership, if you don’t have people that know business, not just a political hack that got the job because he made a contribution to a campaign, which is the way all jobs, just about, are gotten, free trade terrible.
Free trade can be wonderful if you have smart people, but we have people that are stupid. We have people that aren’t smart. And we have people that are controlled by special interests. And it’s just not going to work.
So, here’s a couple of stories happened recently. A friend of mine is a great manufacturer. And, you know, China comes over and they dump all their stuff, and I buy it. I buy it, because, frankly, I have an obligation to buy it, because they devalue their currency so brilliantly, they just did it recently, and nobody thought they could do it again.
But with all our problems with Russia, with all our problems with everything — everything, they got away with it again. And it’s impossible for our people here to compete.
So I want to tell you this story. A friend of mine who’s a great manufacturer, calls me up a few weeks ago. He’s very upset. I said, "What’s your problem?"
He said, "You know, I make great productverything. All of them. But her. I was mentioned nine times, none of the other candidates were mentioned. And then she came out with the sexism, which is so nonsense. And — but she’s playing that card. And then I had to hit her back, so I hit her back and I talked about her husband and the abuse of women and the tremendous abuse — no, it’s tremendous abuse.
I mean, you look at it, it’s tremendous abuse. And I talked about that. And now today, the television is going crazy, and she gets up, makes a speech and doesn’t even mention anything about me with sexism or anything else. I wonder why — I wonder why.
 No, no. And I like him. I think he is a nice guy. But I see these ads with the backdrop and it is just somber. It’s not — I don’t think it’s good. So, think of it. I spent no money and I’m number one. Others spent — they will have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and they are not even in the race. That’s what we need for our country. What? OK. I’ve got 15,000, I don’t know what the hell he means by that but that’s OK. So, but I think he’s a fan. I don’t think he’s a — are you a protester? No. OK. No body likes Trump. OK. He’s not a protester. I love you.
 You know, the only time — don’t worry about it. The only time the cameras focus on the crowd is when we have a protester. Cause I always have — like, look at this room, packed. I always have the biggest crowds.
And I go home and my wife said were there many people? I watched you on television tonight. I said, I had 20,000 people. She said, they didn’t show it. They have it right on your face. So I have 20,000 people. I have 20,000 in Oklahoma, 35,000 in Mobile, Alabama. Nobody knows. Because those cameras stay right in your face and I think they can’t move.
You know, I think they might be fixed because modern cameras maybe — except every time there is a guy that stands up protesting, you know, they are on drugs or something, cause some of those guys, it’s like. They don’t even know what the hell they are doing there, all the sudden, the cameras swerve and make perfect shots.
And I like it because then it shows how big the crowds are. So, you know. Some time I think I’m going to put in some false protesters. I’ll put in some friendly protesters. It’s the only way I’m going to be able to get the crowd in.
So when we started, I talked about trade. I talked about the border. I talked about a lot of things. And I started on June 16th and — in Trump Tower, the famous escalator ride. And it takes guts to run for president. I’ll tell you, you know, it’s like, I’ve never did this before.
And, you know, then they tell you on a debate we had the largest debate. We have the largest audience in the history of cable television. Then CNN a couple of weeks later had 23 million. Fox had 24 million. CNN had 23 million — the largest audience in the history of CNN.
Now, they’re there — the cameras are on live right now. I mean, you know. So, the largest audience in the history of (inaudible).
Now, the debates used to be, if you go back four years or eight years, you know, whenever the cycles came up, nobody even wanted — they didn’t want the debates. I think they were forced to take them for licensing. Nobody wanted the debates. They drew nothing, but now they’re drawing 24 million. Now they want to have more debates — "Oh, can we have more? Can we have more?" Can they go three hours?
Do you remember when they had the one go three hours? I said, no, I’m not doing three hours. It’s too long. Who wants — I could stand up here for 50 hours, but who the hell wants to sit home watching three hours of the stuff, right?
"Mr. Trump, you have 30 seconds. What would you do about ISIS?" Oh, great. And by the way, that question — I hate those questions. You know why? Because I want to be unpredictable. I don’t want to tell ISIS what I’m going to do to knock the hell out of them.
Remember, I said very strongly — (inaudible) the oil for what, four years? You’ve been watching. I mean, four years. I’ve been "get the oil, get the oil, get the oil." Because who’s going to get the oil? Iran is taking over Iraq. We made a deal for Iran, done by some of the dumbest people on earth, on our side. We gave them everything. They — we don’t even get our prisoners back.
And now Iran wants to start negotiating separately for them. Can you believe it? I go crazy. We would have gotten them back. All you had to do was say, "We want our prisoners back." They would have said no. I would have said, "I want them back; you don’t understand me. I want them back." They would have said, "No, we won’t do that." I would have said, "Bye-bye," and I would have left. Then I would have doubled up the sanctions. And I guarantee you...
... I guarantee you that within 24 hours, they would have called back and they’ll say, "You’ve got your prisoners; can we talk?"
And I would have never given them $150 billion. I would have never given them the money. I would have never give — they’re using it — they don’t have to make nuclear. They can buy it. Why are they going to make it? Then we have the nuclear, where they have self- inspections. How about the area — you know, the big area? They don’t want us there. Oh, I wonder why. They don’t want us there. So they self-inspect, OK?
Then they have the 24-day inspection, but the self-inspection is the beauty. "We think you’re making nuclear weapons here." "Well, let us go check, Mr. President, we’ll check."
"No, sir, we’re not making nuclear weapons. Nobody — no, we’re not; we would never do a thing like that."
These are people that have deceived us. They’ve lied to us. They’re a terrorist state. But — and I used to say it’s the worst deal that I’ve ever seen negotiated. And by the way, just to finish prisoners. So they’d come back; we get our prisoners. But then when I hear the other day that now this deal is done. It’s all done. And now I hear they want to negotiate to get — and what do they say? They said very strongly, they said, "We are going to want a lot for the prisoners. That’s out — we’re starting off; we’re going to want a lot."
Now, we’ve already taken off the sanctions. They’re already rich as hell. What — what’s going on there? That’s why I say, I mean, some people say it’s worst than stupidity. There’s something going on that we don’t know about. I mean, honest. And you almost think — I’m not saying that, and I’m not a conspiracy person. As you said, "We are; we’re saying it."
Half the people in this room are saying it. I’m trying to be — you know, I’m just hoping they’re just stupid people, OK?
Which they are. Or there’s something going on. Because it’s — it’s inconceivable. You know, do you ever see where some things are so bad that it can’t be — that nobody can do what they did, right? Nobody.
So, Iran now wants to negotiate separately for the (inaudible). In other words, that deal is done; now we want to start all over again. And they want a lot. "We want a lot." And I just — I want to just shoot the television, you know? Because they would have had it just by saying.
And, you know, when they asked Kerry and Obama, the deal was made. Everybody knows it’s a horrible deal. It’s going to need to — it’s going to lead to tremendous nuclear proliferation, and they’re so rich now. You know, they became — $150 billion — they became so rich. And many other things that you don’t even know about. Most people don’t even know what the agreement says.
 But I’ll tell you what, when you look at what we’re doing, we’re not going to have — if we keep going like this, folks, we’re not going to have a country left. We’re not going to have a country. We’re not going to have a country.
And we’re like a dumping ground for the world. We’re a dumping ground. They want to take these migrants — the migrants, you know, and I feel terrible about the migration, caused by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. They’re the ones that caused it. They go into Libya. They knocked the hell out of Gadhafi. OK, so Gadhafi — they backed rebels who end up killing the ambassador and the other young people.
You know the ambassador was riding in a jeep, one of our jeeps, of course, a military jeep, holding the Libyan flag and you know, freedom, freedom, freedom. And then gets killed by the same people. So, we backed people that turned out to be far worse than Gadhafi.
Look at what we did in Iraq. Look at what we did in Iraq. I mean, what the hell did we get? We spent $2 trillion, and that was as a year and a half ago. I keep saying two or three, it’s a lot more than that. We spent $2 trillion, we have thousands of deaths, and I’m not even talking other side.
You are talking about hundreds of thousands, maybe millions. You have thousands of deaths. We have wounded warriors, who I love, all of. These guys are the toughest — these are the greatest people.
 You know, these are the greatest people. And then what happens? We leave, and we have a president that announces the date of when we are leaving. So, I said, man, if I’m the enemy, I’m just going to go wait for 18 months right?
He gave a date. We are leaving Iraq, we will be gone by such and such a time. I said, I’m just sitting there watching and I’m saying, man, that’s really stupid. Because, believe me, the enemy doesn’t want to be killed. You know, you hear so much, oh they want to go with the virgins up to wherever they go, right?
They don’t. They want to live. And they want to take care of their families, always their families. You remember that, because their families know what’s going on OK? You think their wives don’t know what they are planning? You think their kids don’t know exactly what daddy is doing when daddy is going to fly into the World Trade Center? You think they don’t know? They know exactly what’s going on. Remember that. And frankly, I think they have more love for their family’s lives than they do for their own lives, OK. But they still want to live. So here is Obama, gives an exact date. He gives an exact date and so they pull back.
And everyone says, oh, we are doing so well. Look, we’re doing so well. Why should they fight when they know, in 18 months, they can go in and take the place? So what happens? So we have ISIS taking a lot of oil. I said take the oil. Remember when we left, I was opposed to going in because I said you’re going to destabilize the Middle East.
Because you had Iraq and you had Iran. And I said, they fight, they’re always fighting for decades and decades, for generations. They fight, that’s what they do. They fight. How we ever got involved in this mess is hard to believe. They fight and they were equal militarily. They go this way, 10 feet. They go this way, 10 feet. Then they rest a couple of years, then they start fighting again.
Then Saddam Hussein throws a little gas. Everyone goes crazy. Oh, it’s because (ph) of gas. They go back and forth. It’s the same. And they were stabilized. And I said, if you go after one or the other, in this case Iraq, you’re going to destabilize the Middle East. That’s what going to happen. You’re going to destabilize the Middle East. And that’s exactly what happened. We totally destabilized the Middle East.
We have now migrations ,largely because of what’s happened afterwards. You know Iraq was horrible. It was stupid to go in and we should have never gone in. But we shouldn’t have gotten out the way we went out. And we shouldn’t have given dates. I mean, I would have probably said we are going to stay forever. And they would have said, oh, man.
And then keep going, keep going and eventually they would get tired and say, this guy is crazy. I mean, he’s never going to leave and you’ll make a deal. But when you announce you are leaving in 18 months or whatever the hell he said, they just pull back. And then as soon as we left, they come in OK?
So they have the oil. You know who the biggest benefactor of the oil is right? China. Always China. I love China. I love Mexico. Their leaders are too smart for us. We have no border. We will build a wall. Mexico will pay for the wall by the way.
 We’re building a wall, we are going to have a border. And people are going to come into our country, but they are going to come in through a legal process. They’re not coming in the way they’re coming in now, just walking in like nothing.
They are going to come in, but they are going to come through a legal process. So, with Iraq, so we give them the date and they take over. We didn’t take the year. So for four years, I have been talking about it. Then because of Paris, all of sudden they start bombing the oil.
But I didn’t want to just bomb the oil. I wanted to take oil. They’re bombing. You know, we are bombing. Great. What’s going to happen after that? So we’re bombing. And, you know, we are not really bombing it, because they are still selling it.
 I said, how could they keep selling it? Obama does not want to hit them too hard because he is afraid he is going to pollute the atmosphere. No, this is serious. Now think of it. He talks about the carbon footprint and yet he will fly a very old Air Force one, an old Boeing 747, with the old engines and you know, spewing stuff.
So, he’s got a problem with the carbon footprint. You can’t use hair spray because hair spray is going to affect the ozone. I’m trying to figure out. Let’s see, I’m in my room in New York City and I want to put a little spray so that I can —
— right? Right? But I hear where they don’t want me to use hair spray, they want me to use the pump because the other one which I really like better than going bing, bing, bing —
— and then it comes out in big globs, right, and you — it’s stuck in your hair and you say oh my God, I’ve got to take a shower again. My hair’s all screwed up, right?
I want to use hair spray. They say don’t use hair spray, it’s bad for the ozone. So I’m sitting in this concealed apartment, this concealed unit — you know, I really do live in a very nice apartment, right?
But it’s sealed, it’s beautiful. I don’t think anything gets out. And I’m not supposed to be using hair spray. But think of it. So Obama’s always talking about the global warming, that global warming is our biggest and most dangerous problem, OK? No, no, think of it. I mean, even if you’re a believer in global warming, ISIS is a big problem, Russia’s a problem, China’s a problem. We’ve got a lot of problems. By the way, the maniac in North Korea is a problem. He actually has nuclear weapons, right? That’s a problem.
We’ve got a lot of problems. We’ve got a lot of problems. That’s right, we don’t win anymore. He said we want to win. We don’t win anymore. We’re going to win a lot — if I get elected, we’re going to win a lot.
We’re going to win so much — we’re going to win a lot. We’re going to win a lot. We’re going to win so much you’re all going to get sick and tired of winning. You’re going to say oh no, not again. I’m only kidding. You never get tired of winning, right? Never.
But think of it. So Obama’s talking about all of this with the global warming and the — a lot of it’s a hoax, it’s a hoax. I mean, it’s a money-making industry, OK? It’s a hoax, a lot of it. And look, I want clean air and I want clean water. That’s my global — I want clean, clean crystal water and I want clean air. And we can do that, but we don’t have to destroy our businesses, we don’t have to destroy our —
And by the way, China isn’t abiding by anything. They’re buying all of our coal; we can’t use coal anymore essentially. They’re buying our coal and they’re using it. Now when you talk about the planet, it’s so big out there — we’re here, they’re there, it’s like they’re our next door neighbor, right, in terms of the universe. Miss Universe, by the way, I made a great deal when I sold — oh did I get rich.
That was a great deal. You know, they broke my choppers on that. They said he talks about illegal immigration, we’re not going to put him on television. First of all, Univision is being sued like crazy; you wouldn’t believe it. And NBC, I made a great deal with them, just like an amazing deal, far more than I would have ever gotten — I mean, I made an unbelievable deal — far more than I ever would have gotten if I said I think I’m going to sell it if times were normal, right? Isn’t it amazing the way that stuff can work out?
But I love Miss Universe and I love the universe. But think of it. So China is spewing up all this stuff and we’re holding back. And with China — you know, we signed these agreements where we have to do it now, they have to do it within 30 or 35 years. I don’t think they’re going to be doing it.
It’s like Japan. If somebody attacks Japan, we have to immediately go and start World War III, OK? If we get attacked, Japan doesn’t have to help us. Somehow, that doesn’t sound so fair. Does that sound good?
 So South Korea — I order televisions, I order thousands of televisions a year. I order televisions because I have a lot of stuff and I like nice brand new — they’re all made in South Korea, most — other than Sony, and Sony, in all fairness, has lost its way. But a lot of them — Samsung, all of them. I mean, they’re all pretty much — all of them, right? I think just about. But I order thousands of televisions, they’re all from South Korea. So we have 28,000 people on the bor
You know, I’m doing the old post office or watch (ph) you (ph). I’m under budget, I’m ahead of schedule. Hey, look at the campaign. The guy’s at $59 million and he’s down at the bottom. I’m nothing and I’m at the top. It’s the same thing.
 I actually said — it’s funny. The other day I got this great review. They said trump is a great speaker. The crowd is spellbound. But he has one problem. And I’m reading, and I want to see. The problem is, he speaks through the Applause. In other words, like I say that, you applaud, I start talking you finish your Applause. And you know why? Because I’m so excited, because we have so much potential. It’s true.
 I don’t want to wait for your freaking Applause. We have — I have so many — we have so much potential. There are so many things to do. I don’t really sort of want to wait. I want to do it. And I just noticed, I did it again. You were getting ready to give a big Applause, because you like that, and I’m speaking. I killed the Applause. But he is right. But except, I’m not a speaker. What I am is a doer. I get things done.
 So, when the people up on the stage with me — and Hillary, Hillary doesn’t have a clue. By the way, you talk about low energy. She has lower energy than Jeb Bush, which is hard to believe. She does. And I’ll tell you and I’ve been saying it. And maybe it’s rude, maybe it is not. But it doesn’t matter. We have a much bigger problem. We have to save our country.
So, if I’m rude and if people think I’m rude — I’m actually a nice person. I have a big heart. I want to help people. I want to help the migration. I want to do a safe zone in Syria. I don’t want them coming here. We don’t know who these people are. They are undocumented.
 And we should do a safe zone over there. We should have the Gulf states — Saudi Arabia and these states they are not spending. They have got to spend. They have to pay. You know, we are protecting them. We’re doing — they wouldn’t be there for two minutes if we weren’t protecting them. They have to start paying. They are not taking anybody, OK?
How about Germany taking millions of migrants. Can you believe what she is doing to that country? And she was the person of the year and I wasn’t. Everybody said Trump was supposed to.
(BOOING)
Hey, what are you going to do. I think she has made a terrible mistake. We will find out. Time will tell. They have tremendous crime problems. I think she has made a tremendous mistake. But what I like is in Syria, with other people’s money, meaning the Gulf states and others and Germany and others.
Because, look, Germany is paying a fortune to accept all these people. They’ll give us the money. We do a massive safe zone. And then eventually when this whole catastrophe straightens out, which I will probably be able to get it straightened out, I understand this now.
But once it’s straightened out, they could go home to their country, you know, to their area. It is interesting, I have thousands of people that work for me. Thousands. And I have people that come from far — they are all here legally, don’t worry about it. I use E- verify. But I have people — oh, they go and check. These guys go check.
They went into the old post office checking everybody who walked their dog, are you hear illegally? They said they found one person out of hundreds and hundreds. I don’t believe it. But, you know, it is possible somebody slipped — hey, we do have 11 million people in the country. And it is probably a much higher number than that, OK? It is probably a much higher number.
But we have to do something about it and we are going to. So, I just want to finish by saying this. Look, we have a situation that is out of control. Our country is a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We are laughed at by the rest of the world.
And when I started this journey, and it is a journey, and I do love you people. You’re amazing people. And by the way, you are so smart. A lot of times, they will say, well Mr. Trump’s people are blue-collar. I love blue-collar. I’m honored by that.
But they are not blue-collar. We have blue-collar and we have executives and we have young people. They say the audience is old. It’s not older. The audience is young. The other night in Iowa, I told that, and I said, we have so many young people and the place erupted. They are all young people. We have an amazing thing happening, it’s just...
 Look, that’s their way of marginalizing, not even me, they are marginalizing you. It is disgusting. But when I started this journey and that’s what it is, it’s a journey and it’s a movement that’s taking place. It’s a movement. Remember the old days? Silent majority? It’s not right. It’s a noisy majority. People are angry. It’s a noisy majority. These aren’t silent people anymore. I go to people — you can’t even hear.
This is an amaz
 It's true. And I love Mexico. I love Mexico, I love China, I love many of these countries that rip us off because we have leaders that are incomptent and don't know what they're doing. I love these countries. They're great. I have thousands and thousands of Hispanics. We're going to Nevada.
I lead -- I lead with the Hispanics. I'm leading in every poll with the Hispanics. They love me, I love them. The problem is -- the problem is that the leaders of these countries whether it's Mexico or Japan or Viet Nam which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden or China in particular -- that's the big one. The greatest abuse of a country that I think I've ever seen financially -- China.
What they've done to us is the greatest single theft in the history of the world. They've taken our jobs, they've taken our money, they've taken everything. We're bringing our jobs back, folks. We're bringing our jobs back. We're going to bring them back ...
 And I know how to do it. We've had so many -- we've had so many incredible endorsements and to me getting the greatest business people to endorse me is very important. Carl Icahn endorsed me, so many others have endorsed me.
And we're going to put these great business people in charge of trade and when China wants to come and negotiate, they're going to negotiate not with a political hack which is what they have now. They're going to negotiate with the best business minds in the world and we have them in this country.
 So we're going to do a lot of beautiful work. We're going to terminate Obamacare. It's going to terminated. It's going to be over ...
 It's going to be repealed and it's going to be replaced. And you're going to have much better health care at a much smaller cost because Obamacare -- if you look -- look at the increases in your Obamacare. Twenty-five, 35, 45, even 55 percent. It's dead. It's not working. We're going to go to a plan that's going to be so much better and so much less expensive.
 So second amendment by the way -- this is a room loves the second amendment. Thank you, fellows. This is a room loves and cherishes the second amendment. We are going to protect our second amendment. Totally ...
7/12/2016
WOW. WOW! [ CHEERING ] WHOA! THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THAT'S A LOT OF PEOPLE. THANK YOU, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. ALL RIGHT. LET'S TURN THAT MUSIC DOWN. WE WANT TO GET TO BUSINESS, RIGHT? GET TO BUSINESS. HOW IS YOUR GOVERNOR DOING, BY THE WAY? GOOD? I THINK SO. I THINK SO. I JUST WANT TO THANK ALL OF THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA. YOU KNOW, WE HAD A GREAT VICTORY HERE NOT SO LONG AGO. AND INDIANA WAS THE STATE THAT PUT ME OVER THE TOP. THANK YOU, FOLKS. THANK YOU. [ CHEERING ] WELL, WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS TO DISCUSS, BUT WE HAD SOME VERY BAD NEWS A FEW DAYS AGO, AND YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED. A LOT OF BAD THINGS ARE HAPPENING. AND I WAS GOING TO GO THROUGH A WHOLE LITANY OF THAT, BUT WE DON'T WANT TO. WE WANT TO BE UPBEAT. WE WANT TO BE POSITIVE. WE WANT TO BE STRONG. AND WE'RE GOING TO BE STRONG. WE'RE GOING TO BE STRONGER THAN EVER BEFORE. WE'RE GOING TO BE GREATER THAN EVER BEFORE. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS BACK. WE'RE GOING BRING OUR MILITARY BACK. IT'S BEING DEPLETED SO BADLY. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS, WHICH WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF. WE'RE GOING TO GET RID OF OBAMACARE, WHICH IS A DISASTER. [ CHEERING ] AND REPLACE IT WITH SOMETHING TERRIFIC. WE END COMMON CORE. WE BRING OUR EDUCATION BACK TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES LIKE THIS LOCAL COMMUNITY WHERE THE PEOPLE LOVE THEIR CHILDREN AND THEY WANT TO SEE THEIR CHILDREN BE WELL EDUCATED. IT'S SO IMPORTANT. WE'RE GOING TO SAVE OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. WE'RE GOING TO SAVE OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. AND IT'S UNDER SIEGE. YOU KNOW, I WROTE A FEW WORDS TODAY. AND I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE GO THROUGH IT AS A GROUP. IT'S BEEN A SPECIAL PLACE AND YOU'RE SPECIAL PEOPLE. AND I KNOW SO MANY PEOPLE TONIGHT IN THE AUDIENCE. AND YOU'RE ALL OVER. LOOK AT ALL THOSE CAMERAS UP THERE, FOLKS. LOOK AT ALL THOSE CAMERAS. THEY DON'T STOP. THEY DON'T STOP. BUT I JUST WANTED TO SAY I WROTE THIS QUICKLY, BUT IT MEANS IT CAME RIGHT FROM THE HEART. AND I HAVE TO SAY THAT OUR WHOLE NATION GRIEVES AND MOURNS FOR THE LOSS OF FIVE HEROS IN DALLAS, LAW ENFORCEMENT. THESE WERE GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE. GREAT PEOPLE. [ APPLAUSE ] WE PRAY FOR THEIR FAMILIES. WE PRAY FOR THEIR LOVED ONES. WE PRAY FOR ALL THE WOUNDED SURVIVORS. WE PRAY FOR OUR COUNTRY. IT'S SO IMPORTANT. THE POLICE ARE NOT JUST PART OF OUR SOCIETY. OUR POLICE ARE THE BEST OF OUR SOCIETY. REMEMBER THAT. WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT. THEY REPRESENT OUR HIGHEST IDEALS, OUR GREATEST VALUES, AND OUR MOST NOBLE CHARACTERISTICS. WHEN OUR POLICE ARE ATTACKED, OUR ENTIRE NATION IS ATTACKED. REMEMBER THAT. REMEMBER THAT. SO THE MESSAGE MUST BE DELIVERED CLEARLY FOR ALL TO HEAR, THE HOSTILITY AGAINST OUR POLICE HAS TO END, AND IT HAS TO END RIGHT NOW. AND WE HAVE TO SAY TOGETHER, AND WE HAVE TO BE STRONG. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF EVERYONE. THE TWO PEOPLE THAT WERE KILLED IN LOUISIANA AND MINNESOTA, IT WAS TOUGH. IT WAS TOUGH TO WATCH FOR EVERYBODY HERE IT WAS TOUGH TO WATCH. WE HAVE TO FIGURE IT OUT. WE HAVE TO FIGURE OUT WHAT IS GOING ON. WAS IT TRAINING? WAS IT SOMETHING ELSE? IT COULD HAVE BEEN SOMETHING ELSE. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF EVERYBODY. REMEMBER THAT. BUT WE HAVE TO ALSO -- WE HAVE TO GET TO THE BOTTOM OF THINGS. WE HAVE TO. BUT WE CAN NEVER, EVER FORGET THE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF GREAT DEALS AND GREAT THINGS THAT OUR POLICE ALL OVER THE COUNTRY DO, AND NOBODY RECOGNIZES THEM FOR WHAT THEY DO. AND WHEN THERE IS A PROBLEM, AS BAD AS THESE TWO SITUATIONS WERE, AND I PERSONALLY THINK THEY WERE, THEY WERE BAD. I HATED, I HATED WATCHING IT. BUT AS BAD AS THEY WERE, THEY GET BROADCAST ALL OVER THE WORLD FOR DAYS AND DAYS, AND ALL OF THE GOOD THINGS WHICH ARE MAGNIFIED THOUSANDS OF TIMES, NOBODY TALKS ABOUT. SO WE HAVE TO REMEMBER, WE HAVE TO CHERISH AND TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE. IF WE DON'T, IF WE DON'T, WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY ANYMORE. WE HAVE A COUNTRY IN CHAOS. AND REMEMBER THIS. AND I SAY IT ONCE, AND I SAY IT WITH LOVE, AND I SAY IT WITH COMPASSION. BECAUSE I HAVE LOVE FOR OUR COUNTRY, AND I HAVE GREAT COMPASSION FOR OUR PEOPLE IN OUR COUNTRY. BUT I AM THE LAW AND ORDER CANDIDATE. WE NEED LAW AND ORDER, AND WE NEED STRENGTH IN THIS COUNTRY. WE DON'T HAVE STRENGTH IN OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE CROOKED HILLARY CLINTON, AS CROOKED AS YOU GET. I MEAN, YOU SAW THAT WITH THE E-MAILS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM, FOLKS. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. JUST REMEMBER IT. IT'S A RIGGED SYSTEM. IT'S RIGGED IN SO MANY DIFFERENT WAYS. WE'RE GOING TO STRAIGHTEN IT OUT. YOU CAN'T EVEN WATCH WHAT HAPPENS. WE HAD A YOUNG MAN WHO DID NOTHING BY COMPARISON TO WHAT SHE DID, AND HE WARNED HIS FRIENDS OF A PROBLEM THAT WAS COMING MILITARILY. AND THEY CAME DOWN ON HIM WITH A VENGEANCE. AND THEY LET HER GO. 33,000 MISSING E-MAILS. THEY LET HER GO. LIES ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THEY LET HER GO. THINK OF IT. IT'S A DISGRACE. SO WE'RE GOING TO GET ON TO OTHER SUBJECTS. BUT I HAVE TO SAY LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS TO REMAIN WITH US. WE HAVE TO TAKE CARE OF OUR POLICE AND OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS. WE'RE GOING TO DO IT. WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE TO DO IT. WE'RE GOING REMEMBER THAT THEY DO A FABULOUS JOB. WE'RE GOING TO REMEMBER THAT THEY DO A GREAT JOB. AND EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE, PROBLEMS WILL HAPPEN. AND WE'RE GOING TAKE CARE OF THOSE PROBLEMS. AND THEY CAN BE BAD PROBLEMS. BUT WE ARE GOING TO TREAT OUR POLICE WITH RESPECT. REMEMBER THAT. OKAY? NOW I'M LOOKING AT DIFFERENT RATES AND DIFFERENT CRIMES. AND YOU SEE THE CRIME RATE IN LARGE PORTIONS OF OUR COUNTRY IS GOING WAY UP. YOU LOOK AT CERTAIN INNER CITIES, AND LOOK AT CHICAGO. LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON. SINCE PRESIDENT OBAMA BECAME PRESIDENT, ALMOST 5,000 KILLINGS IN CHICAGO. AND NOBODY TALKS ABOUT IT. WELL, WE'RE GOING TO START TALKING ABOUT IT. BECAUSE WE HAVE TO MAKE THIS A SAFE COUNTRY. AND, YOU KNOW, I WOULD SAY TWO WEEKS AGO, A MONTH AGO, I WOULDN'T BE SAYING THESE WORDS. I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE BORDER. I WAS TALKING ABOUT THE WALL. AND WE WILL BUILD THE WALL. THAT I CAN TELL YOU. I CAN TELL YOU. WE'RE GOING TO BUILD IT. DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. ARE YOU READY? WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
 I DON'T HEAR YOU. WHO IS GOING TO PAY FOR THE WALL?
AND THEY WILL. VERY MUCH. THEY WILL. 100%. AND YOU KNOW WHAT? THEY'LL BE HAPPY TO PAY FOR THE WALL. WE HAVE A TRADE DEFICIT WITH MEXICO THAT YOU WOULDN'T BELIEVE. BILLIONS AND BILLIONS AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS A YEAR. WE'RE LOSING ON THE BORDER. WE'RE LOSING ON TRADE. AND WHEN I WAS IN THE DEBATES AND I MENTIONED THIS, PEOPLE WOULD COME UP THAT I WAS DEBATING AGAINST, AND THEY USED TO SAY DONALD, YOU'RE NOT REALLY GOING TO BUILD A WALL, ARE YOU? I SAY ABSOLUTELY. THEY SAY BUT YOU CAN'T BUILD A WALL. BUT I'M IN THE CONSTRUCTION. YOU KNOW HOW EASY A WALL IS? A WALL. WE BUILD 95-STORY BUILDINGS WITH BATHROOMS. THAT'S TOUGH CONSTRUCTION, NOT A WALL. WALLS DON'T HAVE BATHROOMS. AND BATHROOMS ARE ALWAYS TOUGH. BUT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A VERY BIG BEAUTIFUL GATE IN THAT WALL, BIG AND BEAUTIFUL. AND THAT GATE IS GOING TO BE OPEN. AND IT'S GOING TO BE WIDE OPEN FOR PEOPLE TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY, BUT THEY'RE GOING TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY LEGALLY. THEY'RE GOING TO COME IN LEGALLY. AND THERE ARE GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT LOVE OUR COUNTRY. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT HATE OUR COUNTRY. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT WE DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY COME FROM. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE PEOPLE THAT COME FROM THE MIGRATION THAT DON'T HAVE PAPERWORK, THAT DON'T HAVE PASSPORTS, THAT WE HAVE NO IDEA WHERE THEY'RE FROM. WE HAVE NO IDEA WHAT THEIR MOTIVES ARE. WE'RE GOING TO SAY NO. SORRY. NO. AND WE'LL HELP. AND IN SYRIA, WE'LL BUILD SAFE ZONES, AND WE'LL GET OTHER PEOPLE TO PUT UP THE MONEY, BECAUSE WE'RE GOING TO OWE VERY SOON 20 TRILLION, TRILLION WITH A T. NOBODY EVEN KNOWS WHAT IT MEANS. WE'RE GOING TO OWE -- RIGHT NOW, CAN YOU BELIEVE THIS? $20 TRILLION. SOON GOING TO $21 TRILLION. SO WE'RE GOING GET THE GULF STATES WHO HAVE SO MUCH MONEY, FOLKS. SO MUCH MONEY. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET THEM TO PUT UP THE MONEY AND OTHERS. AND WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. AND WE'RE GOING HAVE COMPASSION. BUT WE CAN'T ALLOW THEM TO COME INTO OUR COUNTRY. WE HAVE ENOUGH PROBLEMS RIGHT NOW. YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN ORLANDO. YOU SEE WHAT HAPPENED IN SAN BERNARDINO. WE CAN'T ALLOW IT TO HAPPEN. SO WE'RE GOING TO BUILD SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE OTHER PEOPLE FUND THESE SAFE ZONES. WE'RE GOING TO BUILD UP OUR MILITARY. WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER BEEN IN IRAQ. BUT ONCE WE WENT INTO IRAQ, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER LEFT THE WAY WE LEFT. WE LEFT LIKE FOOLS. WE WENT IN, SHOULD HAVE NEVER HAPPENED. I DIDN'T WANT TO GO FROM THE BEGINNING, AND I HAVE PROOF FROM THE BEGINNING. I DIDN'T WANT IRAQ. I SAID YOU'RE GOING TO DESTABILIZE THE ENTIRE MIDDLE EAST, AND THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED. BUT THEN WE WERE THERE. LOSING THOUSANDS OF LIVES, SPENDING TRILLIONS AND TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS. PROBABLY IN THE MIDDLE EAST WE'RE UP TO $4 TRILLION. AND WE'RE IN WORSE SHAPE NOW THAN WE WERE 15 YEARS AGO BEFORE THE WHOLE DEAL STARTED. FAR WORSE. NOT EVEN CLOSE. FAR WORSE. FAR WORSE. SO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO IS WE'RE GOING TO START THINKING SMART. WE'RE GOING TO BE SMART AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT MILITARY, AND BY THE WAY, I SAID FOR YEARS WE'VE GOT TO KEEP THE OIL. I SAID KEEP THE OIL. YOU LEAVE, YOU KEEP THE OIL. WE DIDN'T DO IT. WE DIDN'T DO IT. I SAID IT FOR YEARS. ONCE WE WERE IN, I SAID WHEN WE GET OUT, IT'S GOING TO BE A DISASTER, BUT WHEN WE GET OUT, WE SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE. AND I HATE SAYING THAT. BUT WE SHOULD HAVE LEFT SOME TROOPS THERE, AND IT WOULD HAVE BEEN BETTER, CERTAINLY, THAN IT IS RIGHT NOW. CAN'T BE ANY WORSE. BUT I ALWAYS SAID KEEP THE OIL. BUT WE DIDN'T KEEP THE OIL. SO WHO HAS THE OIL RIGHT NOW? A LOT OF THE OIL IS HAD BY ISIS. AND WE CREATED ISIS. AND HILLARY CLINTON THROUGH HER INCOMPETENCE DIRECTLY AND INDIRECTLY CREATED ISIS. AND NOW SHE WANTS TO GET RID OF IT. SHE SAYS YES, WE WILL FIGHT ISIS. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED IT WITH STUPIDITY, WITH STUPID, STUPID POLICY. POLICY THAT'S ONLY GOING TO GET WORSE. SHE IS THE ONE THAT CREATED IT. AND THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENED. AND SO NOW WE HAVE PROBLEMS ALL OVER THE PLACE. WE HAVE OUR CITIES EXPLODING. WE HAVE ISIS LOOKING AT US. AND BY THE WAY, WHEN OUR ENEMIES ALL OVER THE WORLD, INCLUDING OUR FRIENDS ALL OVER THE WORLD LOOK AT WHAT'S HAPPENING TO OUR COUNTRY, WHERE THE OTHER NIGHT YOU HAD 11, THINK OF IT, 11 CITIES POTENTIALLY IN A BLOWUP STAGE. MARCHES ALL OVER THE UNITED STATES, AND TOUGH MARCHES, ANGER, HATRED, HATRED. STARTED BY A MANIAC THAT SOME PEOPLE ASKED FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE FOR HIM. FOR THE KILLER, FOR THE KILLER. OKAY? SO WHEN OUR ENEMIES LOOK AT WHAT IS GOING ON WITH OUR COUNTRY, THEY SEE OUR DEFICITS. THEY SEE WE DON'T WIN ANYMORE. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN. WE DON'T WIN AT ANYTHING. I ALWAYS SAY WHEN I WAS GOING, WHEN I WAS YOUNG GOING TO HIGH SCHOOL AND GOING TO COLLEGE AND BEFORE THAT WE NEVER LOST. YOU KNOW, UNITED STATES, THEY SAID HAD NEVER LOST A WAR. NOW WE NEVER WIN. WE DON'T WIN ON TRADE. WE DON'T WIN WITH OUR MILITARY. OUR MILITARY IS SO DEPLETED, OUR MILITARY HAS FIGHTER JETS THAT ARE IN USE FLOWN BY GREAT, GREAT AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT ARE SO OLD, AND THEY CAN'T GET PARTS FOR THE FIGHTER JETS. THESE ARE PEOPLE FLYING THESE JETS NOW IN COMBAT. THEY CAN'T GET PARTS. SO THEY GO TO THE PLANE GRAVEYARDS IN THE DESERTS. THEY GO TO MUSEUMS WHERE THEY HAVE SIMILAR PLANES, AND THEY STRIP APART TO USE FOR OUR FIGHTER PILOTS TO FLY. THIS IS WHAT WE'VE BEEN REDUCED TO. AND I'LL TELL YOU SOMETHING. HILLARY CLINTON IS INCOMPETENT, OKAY. THE GREATEST SINGLE THING IN MY OPINION THAT SHE'S EVER DONE IS TO GET OUT OF THE E-MAIL PROBLEM. I THINK IT IS INCREDIBLE. SHE DID A GREAT JOB ON THAT. I THINK IT IS HER GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT. I THINK WHEN THEY LOOK BACK ON HILLARY CLINTON, THEY WILL SAY THE GREATEST ACHIEVEMENT OF HILLARY CLINTON WAS GETTING OUT OF THIS PROBLEM WITH E-MAIL TZ. HOUDINI COULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN OUT. SHE WAS SO GUILTY. I HAVE A LIST. LOOK. PAGE AFTER PAGE OF THE LIES -- PAGE AFTER PAGE OF THE LIES. ALL OVER. LOOK AT THIS. PAGE, PAGE. LOOK, I DON'T WANT TO READ IT TO YOU. THE PRESS WOULD SAY, YOU SHOULD SPEND YOUR ENTIRE SPEECH TALKING ABOUT HILLARY CLINTON AND THE E-MAILS. I DON'T WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT. YOU KNOW WHAT, IT WAS ALL LIES, FOLKS. I DON'T HAVE TO GO THROUGH AND BORE EVERYBODY. IT WAS SO HORRIBLE. IT WAS SO DISGUSTING. IT WAS SO OUTRAGEOUS. YOU LOOK AT GENERAL PETRAEUS AND LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO HIM FOR A TINY FRACTION OF WHAT CROOKED HILLARY DID. YOU LOOK AT OTHER PEOPLE, FOR A TINY FRACTION, LOOK AT WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM. SO I JUST TELL YOU THIS, WE HAVE A CANDIDATE ON THE OTHER SIDE WHO, IF SHE EVER GETS ELECTED, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE DISGUSTING YEARS OF OBAMA, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF WEAKNESS, IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF CIVIL UNREST. IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF NOT WINNING WITH OUR MILITARY AND NOT WINNING AGAINST ISIS. THEY DON'T HAVE A CLUE HOW TO BEAT ISIS. THEY DON'T HAVE A CLUE. BUT IT WILL BE FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA, AND OBAMA CARE AND ALL OF THESE THINGS THAT DON'T WORK. EXCEPT I THINK ACTUALLY IT WILL BE WORSE. TODAY I SEE BERNIE SANDERS GAVE HER THIS VERY YOU KNOW, SORT OF STRANGE ENDORSEMENT. I WANT TO TELL YOU, A LOT OF BERNIE SANDERS PEOPLE ARE SO UPSET ABOUT IT, THEY ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. I REALLY BELIEVE THAT. THEY'RE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. THEY ARE GOING TO BE VOTING FOR TRUMP. BECAUSE THE ONE THING THAT BERNIE SANDERS AND I HAVE IN COMMON WAS TRADE. NOW HE CAN'T DO ANYTHING ABOUT IT. HE JUST KNEW IT WAS BAD. I KNOW HOW TO FIX IT. BECAUSE I AM IN FAVOR OF FREE TRADE. A LOT OF PEOPLE SAY I'M AN ISOLATIONIST, WHEN YOU LOSE $800 BILLION A YEAR ON TRADE DEFICITS, MAYBE THAT IS NOT THE WORSE THING. BUT WE'LL STRAIGHT IT OUT. I BELIEVE IN OPEN BORDERS FOR TRADE AND FREE TRADE. THE PROBLEM WE HAVE IS THAT VIRTUALLY EVERY SINGLE COUNTRY THAT DEALS WITH US ARE FAR SHARPER AND FAR BETTER. THEY HAVE THEIR BEST NEGOTIATORS. WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT ARE POLITICAL HACKS NEGOTIATING FOR US AND PEOPLE THAT DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING. I HAVE THE GREATEST BUSINESSMEN IN THE WORLD THAT HAVE ENDORSED ME, INCLUDING PEOPLE LIKE CARL ICAHN, GREAT BUSINESSMAN. WE HAVE SOME OF THE GREATEST NEGOTIATORS, MAYBE THE GREATEST IN THE WORLD AND WE DON'T USE THEM. WE USE POLITICAL HACKS. WE HAVE PEOPLE IN THERE THAT GOT IN FOR POLITICS. YOU COULD LOOK AT THE BIGGEST COMPANIES IN THE WORLD, AND IT IS SMALL POTATOES. IT IS PEANUTS COMPARED TO SOME OF THE MASSIVE TRADE DEALS. AND WE HAVE PEOPLE THAT SHOULD NEVER BE NEGOTIATING TRADE DEALS. JUST LIKE WE HAVE SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY NEGOTIATING WITH IRAN, AND WHAT THEY DID TO HIM AND YOU BECAUSE HE HAS NO IDEA WHAT THE HELL HE WAS DOING AND WHAT HE GAVE AWAY, ISRAEL IS IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY, FRANKLY WE'RE IN SERIOUS JEOPARDY, AND WE MADE A POWER OUT OF IRAN. WE MADE A POWER. NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER GONE IN AND NEGOTIATED THAT DEAL UNTIL WE GOT OUR HOSTAGES BACK. EVER. EVER. WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER, EVER GONE IN. AND WHAT YOU SAY IS, FOLKS, WE HAVE TO GET THEM BACK. AND IF YOU DON'T WANT TO GIVE THEM BACK, YOU LEAVE THE MEETING. YOU LEAVE THE MEETING. AND YOU DOUBLE UP YOUR SANCTIONS, YOU WOULD HAVE HAD THEM BACK WITHIN 24 HOURS, I GUARANTEE YOU THAT. BUT WE DSHTIDN'T DO THAT. I KEPT WAITING FOR THE WHOLE DELEGATION, I KEPT WAITING FOR THEM TO LEAVE, TO GET UP AND LEAVE. I USED TO SAY GET UP AND LEAVE. PERFECT. GET UP. WE DIDN'T WIN ANYTHING. THE ONLY TIME THAT KERRY LEFT WAS AT 73 YEARS OLD TO GO INTO A BICYCLE LACE WHERE HE FELL AND BROKE HIS LEG, RIGHT. AND I ALWAYS TELL PEOPLE, I PROMISE YOU I WILL NEVER ENTER A BICYCLE RACE WHEN I'M IN THE MIDST OF AN IMPORTANT NUCLEAR NEGOTIATION, I PROMISE. I PROMISE. BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT, NUMBER ONE, WE SHOULD HAVE GOTTEN THEM BACK. AND THE OTHER THING, WE SHOULD HAVE NEVER GIVEN THEM BACK THE $150 BILLION. AND I WOULD HAVE SAID VERY NICELY, MY FATHER USED TO THINK I WAS A LITTLE BIT ROUGH, AND HE USED TO GO, EASY, SON. SON, TAKE IT NICE AND EASY. YOU HAVE TO TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. HE HAD AN EXPRESSION. GOOD FATHER. WE ALL HAVE GREAT FATHERS, I HOPE. I HAD A GOOD FATHER. BUT I LEARNED A LOT. HE SAID, AND HE WOULD GO LIKE THIS THE LUMPS OUT. TAKE THE LUMPS. EASY. NICE AND EASY. TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUGH. WHAT DO YOU MEAN, POP? YOU'RE A LITTLE TOO ROUGH. AND OVER THE YEARS, I THINK I LEARNED THAT. MADE GREAT DEALS AND BUILT A GREAT COMPANY. GREAT COMPANY. TOOK ADVANTAGE OF EVERY SINGLE THING YOU CAN BECAUSE YOU ARE WORKING FOR YOURSELF AND FAMILIES AND YOUR EMPLOYEES AND TOOK ADVANTAGE OF THE LAWS, SOME OF THE LAWS ARE THE DUMBEST LAWS I'VE EVER SEEN AND SO STUPID BUT YOU TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THEM. YOU'RE LIKE A BUSINESS PERSON, RIGHT, GOT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THEM. BECAUSE YOU ARE REALLY REPRESENTING YOUR EMPLOYEES, YOUR COMPANY AND YOUR FAMILY. BUT MY FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHAT I WOULD HAVE SAID ON THE 150. IN THE OLD DAYS WHEN I'M YOUNG, I WOULD SAY WE'RE NOT PAYING YOU BACK THE 150 BILLION, YOU'RE NOT GETTING IT. AND THERE COULD BE A LOT OF HARD FEELING IN THE ROOM. TAKE A WHILE -- THEY WILL STILL COME BACK, DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT. BECAUSE THEY NEED US. THEY NEED US. AND THEN I WOULD HAVE LEFT AND HERE GO THE SANCTIONS. I WOULD HAVE DONE TWO THINGS. NUMBER ONE, HOSTAGES BEFORE WE UTTER THE FIRST WORD. AND NUMBER TWO -- AND HOW LONG WERE THE HOSTAGES THERE. THAT NEGOTIATION TOOK FOREVER AND WE DIDN'T WIN A POINT. WE LOST EVERYTHING. THEY'RE GOING TO BE A NUCLEAR POWER AND THEY ARE RICH AND POWERFUL. HOW ABOUT YEMEN. THEY ARE FIGHTING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF YEMEN. AND THEY'RE FIGHTING AND WEE FIGHTING. WHY DIDN'T THEY MAKE THE DEAL TO GET OUT OF YEMEN AND KERRY SAID BECAUSE HE DIDN'T WANT TO COME PLIBLG ATE -- COMPLICATE THE NEGOTIATIONS. THEY DON'T WANT TO BRING SOMETHING ELSE TO COMPLICATE IT. THESE ARE AMATEURS. BUT MY FATHER WOULD SAY TAKE THE LUMPS OUT. SO HERE IS WHAT I WOULD SAY. WE WOULDN'T BE NEGOTIATING BECAUSE OUR PRISONERS WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK YEARS AGO. I WOULD HAVE SAID, LOOK, FELLAS, HERE IS THE STORY. WE HAVE A PROBLEM. OUR COUNTRY IS FLAT BROKE. WE OWE 19 TRILLION AND GOING TO BE 20 TRILLION OR $21 TRILLION WITH THE OMNIBUS VERY SOON. I WANT TO GIVE YOU THE MONEY BACK, I REALLY DO. WE DON'T HAVE IT, I'M SORRY. THEY WOULD HAVE GONE NUTS. THEY WOULD HAVE SAID, WHAT DO YOU MEAN YOU HAVE TO GIVE US -- NO, NO, WE WANT TO. WE DON'T HAVE IT. I WANT TO SO BADLY. WE LOVE YOU. YOU'RE SUCH GREAT PEOPLE. SUCH NICE PEOPLE. SO KIND. TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THEY DO TO THEIR HOSTAGE AND PRISONERS AND YOU'LL FIND OUT ABOUT TOUGH PEOPLE. GREAT NEGOTIATORS. PERSIANS, GREAT NEGOTIATORS. I WOULD HAVE SAID, REMEMBER, NICE AND EASY. I WOULD HAVE RATHER DONE IT MY WAY, BUT I RESPECTED MY FATHER. SO I WOULD HAVE SAID, WE DON'T HAVE THE MONEY, CAN'T DO IT. THEY WOULD HAVE LEFT AND WE WOULD HAVE LEFT AND WE WOULD HAVE BEEN BACK IN TWO WEEKS. WE WOULD HAVE SAVED $150 BILLION. SO THOSE TWO THINGS. WE WOULD HAVE HAD OUR HOSTAGES BACK AND SAVED $150 BILLION. NOW THEY ARE SO RICH, THEY ARE BUYING AIRLINERS, THEY ARE BUYING EVERYTHING. THEY ARE BUYING PROBABLY NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE JUST DON'T KNOW ABOUT IT, OKAY. WHAT THE HELL -- DO YOU HAVE TO -- NUCLEAR WEAPONS, WE'RE WORRIED ABOUT THEM MAKING NUCLEAR WEAPONS. THEY'LL BUY THEM. THEY HAVE THE MONEY. THEY MADE SUCH FOOLS OUT OF US. FOLKS, THOSE DAYS ARE OVER. THEY'RE OVER. THEY'RE OVER. I CALL OBAMA THE FIVE-FOR-ONE PRESIDENT. SO WE HAVE A TRADER NAMED SERGEANT BERGDAHL. SO SERGEANT BERGDAHL THINKS HE LIKES THEIR WAY OF LIFE, OBVIOUSLY. OH, THEY HAVE A WONDERFUL WAY OF LIFE. SO ONE DAY HE LEAVES. WE LOSE FIVE AND MAYBE SIX, BUT FIVE AT LEAST PEOPLE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY WERE KILLED. THEY WERE KILLED BY THE ENEMY. THEY GO OUT THERE LOOKING FOR HIM. THEY KNEW HE LEFT. EVERYBODY WITH HIM KNEW HE LEFT BECAUSE HE WAS ALL WHACKED OUT AND A BELIEVER IN THEM, NOT US. SO THEY KNEW HE LEFT. SO KNOWING THAT, THE FACT THEY HAVE A COLONEL AND I BELIEVE A GENERAL TALKING TO THE PEOPLE THAT KNEW HIM, AND THEY TOLD THE COLONEL AND THE GENERAL THAT HE LEFT. HE DESERTED. REMEMBER THE OLD DAY, A DESERTER, WHAT HAPPENED? BANG. 20 YEARS AGO, IT WAS BANG, BUT SLOWLY. TEN YEARS AGO IT WAS LONG PRISON. TODAY THEY ARE PROBABLY TALKING ABOUT NOTHING. THAT IS WHERE WE'VE COME. BUT I CALL HIM THE FIVE-FOR-ONE. SO WE GET BERGDAHL, RIGHT, A TRADER. AND THEY GET FIVE OF THE MOST VICIOUS KILLERS THAT THEY HAVE, THAT THEY'VE BEEN AFTER FOR NINE YEARS TO GET THEM OUT AND THEY BRING THEM AND THEY ARE BACK ON THE BATTLEFIELD TRYING TO KILL EVERYBODY, INCLUDING US. THIS STUFF HAS GOT TO STOP, FOLKS. AND GITMO, WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. WE'RE GOING TO FILL IT UP. WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. WE'RE NOT CLOSING GITMO. AND I SEE HILLARY CLINTON SAID, I DO NOT LIKE DONALD TRUMP'S TONE. LOOK, HERE IS THE STORY. I THINK I HAVE A GREAT TEMPERAMENT. SHE USES THE WORD TEMPERAMENT BUT I LOVE WHEN SHE USES THE WORD TONE. THEY ARE CHOPPING HEADS OFF OF CHRISTIANS AND EVERYBODY ELSE. WE HAVEN'T SEEN THAT SINCE MEDIEVAL TIMES. YOU READ THE HISTORY BOOKS, THEY CHOPPED OFF HEADS. WELL, THEY ARE CHOPPING OFF HEADS. THEY ARE DROWNING PEOPLE IN STEEL CAGES, BY THE DOZENS, AT A TIME. AND SHE SAYS, WE DON'T LIKE HIS TONE. LET ME TELL YOU, FOLKS, IT IS TIME FOR A TOUGH TONE. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. WE'VE HAD ENOUGH. SO WE'RE GOING TO DO THINGS THE SMART WAY. I REMEMBER DURING THE DEBATE THEY ASKED ONE OF THE FOLKS ON THE DEBUT STAGE WHO IS BECOMING FRIENDLIER AND FRIENDLIER BY THE DAY WITH ME, WHICH SOME OF THE PEOPLE ARE RECOVERING. IT WAS -- I'LL TELL YOU WHAT. THEY SAY IT WAS THE NASTIEST PRIMARY THAT ANYBODY HAS SEEN. THEY SAY THE NASTIEST IN RECORDED HISTORY. WHO KNEW WHAT WENT ON BEFORE RECORDED. BUT IT WAS PRETTY NASTY. AND SOME OF THE FOLKS, I SAW ONE YESTERDAY, I WILL NOT EVEN MENTION NAMES BECAUSE I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH EVERYBODY, RIGHT. I WANT TO BE FRIENDS WITH THEM. EXCEPT FOR THE REAL ENEMY. BUT THEY'LL SIGN A DOCUMENT, ALL RIGHT, IT IS CALLED A PLEDGE. I PLEDGE -- I PLEDGE, I SWEAR, I PLEDGE THAT IF I DON'T MAKE IT, I'M GOING TO SUPPORT THE NOMINEE OF THE PARTY. IT DOESN'T SAY, SUBJECT TO CHANGE, SUBJECT TO THE WEATHER, SUBJECT TO THE SUN DOESN'T COME UP. NO. IT SAID, I PLEDGE. AND FOR THAT PLEDGE, THEY GOT ACCESS TO MILLIONS OF DOLLARS WORTH OF MATERIAL FROM THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE, THE RNC. REINCE PRIEBUS, DOING A GREAT JOB. AND IF HE DOESN'T, I'LL TELL YOU. AND IF HE DOESN'T OVER THE NEXT FOUR OR FIVE WEEKS, I'LL TELL YOU. BUT THEY GOT ACCESS. SO THEY SIGNED A PLEDGE THEY WILL SUPPORT. I DON'T WANT THEIR SUPPORT. IT WON'T MEAN ONE VOTE THAN PERHAPS THEIR FAMILY. IT DOESN'T MEAN ANYTHING. BUT I SIGNED THE PLEDGE, TOO. AND EVERYBODY WANTED TO SIGN THE PLEDGE. AND THE REASON THEY SIGNED THE PLEDGE WAS TO GET ME TO SIGN IT. I SIGNED IT. I WOULD HAVE HONORED IT. I SAID PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR PLEDGES. PEOPLE SHOULD HONOR DOCUMENTS WHEN THEY SIGN THEM. YOU KNOW, NOT A BIG DEAL. NOT A BIG DEAL. BUT THEY SHOULD HONOR THEM. SO HERE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE'RE LOSING OUR COUNTRY. WE'RE LIKE A PIECE OF SWISS CHEESE AT THE BORDERS. THAT IS GOING TO END. THAT'S GOING TO END. YOU KNOW, THE BORDER PATROL AGENTS, 16,500, FIRST TIME IN HISTORY THEY'VE DONE THIS, THEY'VE NEVER DONE THIS BEFORE, 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS HAVE ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP. THEY KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY WHAT IS GOING ON AT THE BORDER. AND BY THE WAY, IF AND WHEN WE WIN, IT IS WE -- I'M JUST A MESSENGER FOLKS, I'M TELLING A MESSAGE OF COMMON STRENGTH BUT I'M JUST YOUR MESSENGER AND I'M DOING A GOOD JOB AS A MAEPGESSENGER, IN ALL FAIRNESS, BUT 16,500 BORDER PATROL AGENTS ENDORSED DONALD TRUMP AND WHAT THEY DO NOW IS STAND THERE WITH BEAUTIFUL EQUIPMENT, GREAT PEOPLE, PEOPLE WALK RIGHT BY THEM. THAT IS AN EASY JOB. THEY CAN'T STAND IT. BECAUSE THEY DON'T LIKE WHAT IS COMING INTO OUR COUNTRY. THEY WANT TO DO THEIR JOB. WITH ME, THEY'RE GOING TO BE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I SAID TO THEM, WHEN THEY CALLED ME TO TELL ME ABOUT THE ENDORSEMENT, NEVER DONE IT BEFORE, THEY'VE NEVER ENDORSED A PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE BEFORE, 16,500, GREAT, GREAT PEOPLE AND I SAID TO THEM, SO LET ME TELL YOU, I WANT TO ASK YOU THIS QUESTION -- HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL? THEY SAID, MR. TRUMP, THE WALL IS VITAL. I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WOULD HAVE DONE IF THEY SAID IT IS NOT IMPORTANT. I WOULD HAVE SAID, I GUESS WE'RE NOT BUILDING IT BECAUSE I RESPECT THESE PEOPLE, THEY KNOW BETTER THAN ANYBODY. THEY KNOW A HELL OF A LOT OF BETTER THAN CONSULTANTS AND PEOPLE MAKING A MILLIONS OF DOLLARS THAT DON'T HAVE A CLUE. WHO IS BETTER AT THAT? I SAID HOW IMPORTANT IS THE WALL? MR. TRUMP, NEVER FORGET THE ANSWER, THE WALL IS VITAL. IT IS VITAL. VERY IMPORTANT. VERY IMPORTANT. THEY ACTUALLY SAID IT IS A TOOL TOWARD REAL SECURITY, AN IMPORTANT TOOL. AND THEN I SPOKE WITH SHERIFF JOE ARPAIO FROM ARIZONA AND HE CALLED ME OUT OF THE BLUE AND I'VE READ ABOUT SHERIFF JOE, I MEAN, HE KNOWS BORDERS, RIGHT. AMAZING GUY. TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S AN AMAZING GUY. AND HE SAID, MR. TRUMP, I JUST WANT TO YOU KNOW THAT I'M ENDORSING YOU BECAUSE YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN ANYBODY, YOU KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN PEOPLE DOING IT FOR 25 YEARS. YOU GET IT. YOU KNOW WHAT IS HAPPENING. I'M ENDORSING YOU. AND HE'S ACTUALLY A QUALITY PERSON. HE'S A TOUGH GUY. BUT HE'S A QUALITY PERSON. HE GETS THE JOB DONE. AMAZING. SO I KNOW ABOUT THAT. AND WHEN IT WAS COMING TIME FOR THE WALL, I'LL NEVER FORGET, VICENTE FOX, ON ONE OF THE MAJOR NETWORKS, USED THE F-BOMB. REMEMBER AND I TOLD THIS STORY A COUPLE OF TIMES. HE SAID, WE WILL NOT PAY FOR THE F-BOMB WALL. AND I SAID, OH, HE'S DEAD. CAN YOU IMAGINE, HEADLINES TOMORROW. HE USED IT ON LIVE TELEVISION. AND I SAID, OH, I FEEL SO BADLY FOR THE GUY. AND NOW IN ONE WAY I WAS HAPPY. BECAUSE HE USED TO SAY, WE'LL NEVER BUILD THE WALL. NOW HE'S SAYING WE'LL NEVER PAY FOR THE WALL. SO WE MADE PROGRESS. ADD LEAST HE'S NOW ADMITTING IT IS GOING TO GET BUILT, RIGHT. AND HE SEEMS LIKE A NICE GUY BUT HE GOT A LITTLE BIT ROUGH. WE WILL NEVER PAY FOR THE -- F-BOMB -- WALL. I SAID OH, THE POOR GUY HE IS GOING TO GET KILLED IN THE PAPERS. NOBODY MENTIONED IT. CAN YOU IMAGINE IF I THREW OUT THE F-BOMB. I THINK IT WILL BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR, RIGHT. WOULD IT BE THE ELECTRIC CHAIR. AND THE PRESS, I WILL TELL YOU -- THE PEOPLE BACK THERE, AND I WILL TELL YOU THIS, NOT ALL OF THEM, BUT MANY OF THEM ARE THE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN BEINGS ON THE EARTH. THEY ARE THE MOST DISHONEST HUMAN BEINGS ON EARTH. I'VE HAD DAYS THAT ARE SO GOOD, AND THEN YOU WAKE UP THE NEXT MORNING AND YOU SAY, MAN, DID THEY TAKE THAT. I WON'T EVEN SAY WHAT THINGS -- I COULD GO ONE AFTER ANOTHER. AND WE DON'T MAKE A LOT OF MISTAKES, ALL OF US, WE DON'T MAKE MISTAKES BUT WHAT THEY DO IS TAKE A SENTENCE AND MAKE IT MUCH DIFFERENT THAN WHAT YOU SAID, MUCH DIFFERENT FROM WHAT YOU MEANT. AND ALL OF A SUDDEN, THEY'LL SAY, DONALD TRUMP HAD A BAD WEEK BECAUSE HE SAID SOMETHING PERFECT. PERFECT. OKAY. PERFECT. I'M TELLING YOU, FOLKS, AND I TELL IT ALL OF THE TIME, BECAUSE AS A REPUBLICAN, AND AS A REPUBLICAN CONSERVATIVE, WE ARE AT A TREMENDOUS DISADVANTAGE. YOU LOOK AT THE WAY THEY TREAT CROOKED HILLARY, YOU TAKE A LOOK AT THIS COMPARED TO THE WAY THEY TREAT OTHER PEOPLE, OR THE WAY THEY TREAT ME, THEY ARE SOME OF THE WORST HUMAN BEINGS ON EARTH. I REALLY MEAN IT. I REALLY MEAN IT. YOU KNOW, WHERE ARE MY PROTESTS. I WANT SOME PROTESTERS. YOU KNOW, LOOK AT THIS ROOM. THE GOVERNOR JUST SAID HE'S NEVER SEEN A ROOM LIKE THIS IN INDIANA WITH THIS MANY PEOPLE. HE'S NEVER SEEN ANYTHING LIKE IT. LOOK AT THIS THING. THIS IS WHERE YOUR FOOTBALL TEAM -- LOOK AT THE CEILINGS. EVERYTHING IS NIGHT. I ALWAYS TALK ABOUT THE WALL IS GOING TO BE REALLY HIGH, BUT THAT IS REALLY HIGH UP THERE. THAT IS A BIG ONE. BUT YOU DON'T SEE CROWDS LIKE THIS. WE HAVE CROWDS LIKE THIS EVERYWHERE, NO MATTER WHERE WE GO. AND EVERY TIME I GO HOME AND MY WIFE SAYS HOW WAS THE CROWD. AND I ALWAYS SAY, DIDN'T YOU SEE IT? THEY KEEP THOSE CAMERAS ON MY FACE, THEY NEVER TAKE THE CAMERAS OFF MY FACE BECAUSE THEY DON'T WANT PEOPLE -- I WISH THEY WOULD TURN THE CAMERAS OVER HERE. TAKE A LOOK AT THIS CROWD. TAKE A LOOK AT THIS CROWD. LOOK, THE CAMERAS AREN'T MOVING. THEY ARE REALLY DISHONEST. I REALLY MEAN THIS. THEY ARE SO DISHONEST. THAT IS WHY I LOVE MY PROTESTERS. BECAUSE THE ONLY TIME THEY MOVE THE CAMERAS ARE WHEN WE HAVE A PROTEST. IF SOMEBODY WERE UP THERE SCREAMING OR SHOUTING, THE CAMERAS, WHICH I USED TO THINK WERE IN A FIXED POSITION, I SAID MAYBE MECHANICALLY THEY CAN'T MOVE, BUT WHEN WE HAVE A PROTESTER, THEY TURN AND -- THEY ARE LIKE A PRETZEL ALL OVER THE PLACE. THROUGH THE CAMERAMAN'S LEGS, UP AROUND HIS ANKLES. YOU NEVER SAW CAMERAS MOVE LIKE THIS. THE FACT IS THAT YOU HAVE TO KNOW WHAT YOU'RE GETTING. AND THE SYSTEM IS WONDERFUL IN MANY WAYS, BUT REALLY BAD IN OTHERS. AND ONE OF THE WORST ASPECTS OF OUR SYSTEM IS THE DISHONEST PRESS. THE DISHONEST MEDIA IS ONE OF THE WORST THINGS. I REALLY MEAN IT. THEY WRITE AND SAY THINGS THAT ARE DISGRACEFUL. SO -- AND I LIKE TO SAY, YOU KNOW WHAT, WHEN PEOPLE SEE OR READ OR HEAR THINGS, THEY'LL SAY, I'LL TELL YOU WHAT -- ONE OF THE MOST INCREDIBLE -- PEOPLE SAY WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED? I SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT I'VE LEARNED IS HOW SMART THE PEOPLE ARE. BECAUSE THEIR RATING IS SO LOW, THEY ARE SO -- THOUGHT OF SO BADLY, IT IS LIKE HOW SMART THE PEOPLE WERE. AND I'LL SAY THIS. VARIOUS ANCHORS, SOME OF WHOM TRULY DISLIKE DONALD TRUMP HAVE SAID WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO US -- TO US, I'M THE MESSENGER, YOU'RE THE IMPORTANT ONES IN THIS WHOLE THING, BUT WHAT HAPPENED TO US IS ONE OF THE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENONS THEY'VE EVER SEEN IN THE HISTORY OF THE COUNTRY. I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. I DIDN'T EVEN KNOW THAT. BILL O'REILLY, OF COURSE I'M ON HIS SHOW TONIGHT SO IF YOU GET HOME YOU WILL SEE THE SECOND EDITION. BUT BILL O'REILLY SAID, THE SINGLE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LIFETIME. NOW HE'S A PRO. A SMART GUY AND TOUGH. TOUGH. BUT THE SINGLE GREATEST POLITICAL PHENOMENON THAT HE'S SEEN IN HIS LIFETIME IS DONALD TRUMP AND ALL OF US, THE WHOLE THING. WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER -- WE'VE BEEN ON THE COVER OF "TIME" MAGAZINE, SO MUCH THAT IT BECOMES ROUTINE. IN FACT, THEY JUST TOLD ME, MR. TRUMP, SIR, YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF "TIME" MAGAZINE AGAIN THIS WEEK. I SAID ALL RIGHT. IN THE OLD DAYS, I WOULD SAY THAT IS A BIG DEAL. AND NOW IT IS LIKE, REALLY, THAT IS GOOD, THAT IS ALL RIGHT. YOU'RE ON THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. I'M NOT ON THE COVER OF TIME MAGAZINE. YOU'RE ON THE COVER. JUST REMEMBER THAT. SO WE HAVE A LOT OF THINGS THAT ARE TAKING PLACE. WE HAVE A BADEN EMMY, WE HAVE AN ENEMY THAT IS DISHONEST AND A PRESS THAT IS DISHONEST. WE HAVE A GROUP OF PEOPLE THAT WANT TO GET ELECTED WHO HAVE A RIGGED SYSTEM AND WHO HAVE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM TO A LARGE EXTENT. THEY'VE REALLY RIGGED THE SYSTEM. SAY WHAT YOU WANT ABOUT BERNIE SANDERS, BUT THE SUPER-DELEGATES, THAT WAS WORSE THAN WHAT HAPPENED WITH US. AND FRANKLY, THE ONLY REASON I COULD WIN IS WE WON IN SUCH LANDSLIDES ALL OVER THE PLACE, INCLUDING IN INDIANA. WHAT A LANDSLIDE THAT WAS. AND WE LOVE BOBBY KNIGHT. DO WE LOVE BOBBY KNIGHT. OH, THAT BOBBY KNIGHT. I LOVE MY BOBBY KNIGHT. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES, GENE AND DIGGER AND BOBBY. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES. LOU, LOU HOLTS. WE HAD SO MANY COACHES THAT CAME OUT IN OUR FAVOR. I DO WELL WITH COACHES. BUT THE COACHES LIKE ME. BUT BOBBY WAS OUT HERE WORKING REALLY HARD. AND I COULD SEE IT RIGHT AT THE BEGINNING. THIS WAS GOING TO BE THE WATER SHED. BUT BOBBY CAME OUT AND I CAME OUT AND WE WENT TO A RINAS -- ARENA ARENAS, YOU'VE NEVER SEEN SO MANY PEOPLE. MAYBE YOU'VE BEEN AT SOME OF THE ARENAS. IT IS AMAZING. SO HERE IS THE STORY, FOLKS. WE HAVE TO STOP FOUR MORE YEARS OF OBAMA. WE'VE GOT TO STOP HILLARY CLINTON, WHO IS AS CROOKED AS THEY COME. WE'VE GOT TO BRING OUR COUNTRY BACK. WE HAVE TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE DEAL THAT'S BRING OUR JOBS BACK. AND WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG GREAT WITH THESE COUNTRIES AND TRADE WITH THESE COUNTRIES. I AM NOT AN ISOLATIONIST, I'M A FREE TRADER. BUT I'M A FREE TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEAL -- TRADE TORE MAKE GREAT DEALS, NOT TO MAKE HORRIBLE DEALS. ONE OF THE PEOPLE STANDING RIGHT THERE, SAID TO ME, MR. TRUMP, ARE YOU AN ISOLATIONIST, AND MR. TRUMP -- AND I SAID NO. AND WHAT IS YOUR DEFINITION OF TRADE? AND I SAID VERY SIMPLE. I KNOW FREE AND I KNOW EVERY FORM OF TRADE KNOWN TO MANKIND. HERE IS MY DEFINITION OF TRADE. MY DEFINITION OF "TRADE" IS THAT I WANT TO MAKE GREAT DEALS FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. YOU CAN CALL IT WHATEVER THE HELL YOU WANT. OKAY. AND WE'RE GOING TO. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR JOBS BACK. WE'RE GOING TO BRING OUR MANUFACTURING BACK. YOU LOOK AT WHAT HAS HAPPENED TO THE MANUFACTURING SINCE BILL CLINTON SIGNED PROBABLY THE WORST DEAL ECONOMICALLY IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY, NAFTA. THAT DEAL WAS SIGNED BY BILL CLINTON. YOU LOOK AT AREAS EVEN FROM HERE, BUT YOU LOOK AT PLACES, YOU LOOK AT PLACES LIKE NEW ENGLAND AND NEW YORK STATE AND PENNSYLVANIA, GREAT STATE -- WE'RE LEADING IN PENNSYLVANIA BY THE WAY. IT JUST CAME OUT. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN FLORIDA. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING IN OHIO. I HEAR WE'RE LEADING ALL OVER THE PLACE. AND THE RASMUSSEN POLL JUST CAME OUT, WE'RE LEADING NASHLTIONALLY. BUT WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO. WE ARE DEALING WITH A DISHONEST SYSTEM AND A CROOKED SYSTEM AND A RIGGED SYSTEM SO WE HAVE A LONG WAY TO GO FOLKS, AND WE DON'T WANT ANYBODY TO TAKE IT AWAY FROM US. AND WHEN THIS PERSON SAID TO ME, BY THE WAY, WHAT YOU'VE DONE IS NEVER DONE BEFORE, CONGRATULATIONS, IT DOESN'T EVEN MATTER IF YOU WIN OR LOSE THE ELECTION, WHAT YOU'VE DONE HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE, WINNING ALL OF THE PRIMARIES, BEATING GREAT PROFESSIONALS AND THEY ARE VERY TALENTED PEOPLE, IT HAS NEVER BEEN DONE BEFORE, YOU WILL GO DOWN IN THE HISTORY BOOKS, MR. TRUMP. I SAID DO ME A FAVOR. DON'T EVEN TELL ME ABOUT IT. BECAUSE IF I DON'T WIN THE NEXT ONE, I WILL CONSIDER IT A BIG, FAT WASTE OF TIME AND $55 MILLION I PUT UP, AND I'M STILL PUTTING UP A LOT MORE. AND NOW WE RAISED $51 MILLION LAST MONTH AND WE STARTED TOWARD THE MIDDLE OF THE MONTH. AND EVERYONE WAS SHOCKED. AND MUCH OF THAT MONEY CAME IN SMALL DONATIONS LIKE $71 AVERAGE OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT. AND I PUT UP MILLIONS. BUT I DID IT, LIKE, I WANT TO INCENTIVIZE PEOPLE AND I WANT PEOPLE TO REALIZE, I'M RAISING MONEY FOR THE REPUBLICAN PARTY AND THE RNC. THAT IS WHAT WE WANT TO DO. BECAUSE WE WANT TO KEEP OUR MAJORITY. WE WANT TO KEEP OUR HOUSE. WE WANT TO KEEP OUR SENATE. BECAUSE I'LL TELL YOU WHAT, IF WE CAN DO THAT, AND WE HAVE TRUMP AS PRESIDENT, WE ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO DO THINGS THAT ARE GOING TO BE SO GREAT FOR OUR COUNTRY. GOING TO BE AMAZING. YOU KNOW, WE'RE RUN OF THE HIGHEST TAXED NATIONS IN THE WORLD. AND YET IN GOING AROUND AND MEETING WITH PEOPLE, SMALL BUSINESS PEOPLE, BIG BUSINESS PEOPLE, IF THEY HAD THEIR CHANCE, AND IF THEY HAD THEIR CHOICE, THEY WOULD RATHER GET RID OF RULES AND REGULATION -- WE HAVE THE WORST REGULATIONS ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD. THEY ACTUALLY WOULD RATHER PAY MORE TAX, WHICH IS SURPRISING, AND GET RID OF THESE REGULATIONS THAT ARE CHOKING EVERYBODY. PEOPLE CAN'T RUN THEIR BUSINESSES. SO WE'RE GOING TO TURN THINGS AROUND. WE'RE GOING TO TURN THEM AROUND FAST. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LOSE CARRIER AIR-CONDITIONING FROM INDIANAPOLIS. YOU KNOW THAT DEAL VERY WELL. THOSE PEOPLE HAVE FOLLOWED ME ALL OVER THE PLACE. 1400 PEOPLE, OUT OF JOBS, VISUALLY THEIR MOVING TO MEXICO. ANY OF THE CARRIER FOLKS IN THIS ROOM? BECAUSE WE HAVE -- WE HAVE A LOT -- LOOK AT THAT. WHY ARE YOU IN THE BACK ROW. YOU SHOULD BE IN THE FRONT ROW. BUT WE HAD -- DURING THE SEASON, WE HAD SO MANY OF THEM THAT FOLLOWED US AROUND. THEY FELT SO BADLY. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET THAT HAPPEN. PEOPLE AND COUNTRIES TAKE OUR COMPANIES AND TAKE OUR JOBS, THERE ARE GOING TO BE CONSEQUENCES. THEY WON'T TAKE THEM. BECAUSE WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET CARRIER COME IN AND MAKE AIR-CONDITIONERS IN MEXICO AND SELL THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO US, ACROSS A VERY STRONG BORDER NOW, WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE. AND WHEN WE EXPLAIN TO THE HEADS OF CARRIER THAT HERE IS THE STORY, EITHER STAY OR IF YOU WANT TO GO TO MEXICO, WE WISH YOU A LOT OF LUCK BUT WHEN YOU SELL YOUR AIR-CONDITIONERS, YOU ARE GOING TO PAY A 35% TAX FOR THE AIR-CONDITIONERS TO COME ACROSS THE BORDER. AND YOU KNOW WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN. THEY ARE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THEY'RE NOT GOING TO MOVE. THIS GOVERNMENT WAS THINKING ABOUT LOW INTEREST LOANS, ZERO INTEREST LOANS AND WAYS TO KEEP OUR KPZCOMPANIES. YOU DON'T NEED THAT. THEY DON'T NEED MONEY. THEY'RE MAKING PLENTY OF MONEY. BUT WE WON'T LET THEM JUST TAKE OUR COMPANIES OUT AND FIRE EVERYBODY. THESE ARE PEOPLE WITH CARRIER FOR MANY, MANY YEARS. WE'RE NOT GOING TO LET IT HAPPEN. AND WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A COUNTRY THAT IS SO SMART AGAIN. SO HERE IS THETORY, FOLKS. WE DON'T WIN ANY MORE. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING. WE'RE GOING TO WIN WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO KICK THE HELL OUT OF ISIS. WE HAVE TO END IT. WE HAVE NO CHOICE. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETS. SO IMPORTANT. OUR VETS ARE BEING TREATED SO BADLY. I HAVE SUCH GREAT VETERAN SUPPORT. WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE OF OUR VETERANS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE STRONG BORDERS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE THE WALL -- OH, THAT WALL IS GOING TO BE AS BEAUTIFUL AS A WALL COULD BE. SOMEBODY SAID, MR. TRUMP, SIR, THEY'RE GOING TO CALL IT THE TRUMP WALL. I SAID, WELL THEN I BETTER BUILD IT BIG AND BEAUTIFUL, RIGHT. NO. NO, I DON'T WANT THAT. BUT WE NEED -- WE NEED GREAT BORDERS. BECAUSE WITHOUT BORDERS, WE DON'T HAVE A COUNTRY. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT TRADE DEALS. OUR JOBS ARE GOING TO COME BACK. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE A LOT OF MONEY ON TRADE. RIGHT NOW WE LOSE ALL OF THIS MONEY. YOU LOOK AT JAPAN, THE BIGGEST SHIPS YOU'VE EVER SEEN FLOATING IN, AND I WAS IN LOS ANGELES, THEY FLOAT IN THESE MASSIVE, MASSIVE SHIPS LOADED UP WITH CARS. AND THE CARS ARE POURING JUST LIKE -- I MEAN, NASCAR. I LOVE NASCAR. I LOVE BRIAN FRANCE. HE ENDORSED ME FROM NASCAR, RIGHT. NASCAR. IT IS LIKE NASCAR DRIVERS. KING RICHARD ENDORSED ME. A LOT OF THE GUYS ENDORSED ME. RICHARD PETTY. THEY COME IN AND THEY ARE POURING OFF THESE BOATS. WE SEND THEM WHEAT. WE SEND THEM BEEF. AND WHEN IT GETS THERE, THEY DON'T EVEN WANT IT. THEY SEND IT BACK. YOU WANT TO SEE TRADE IMBALANCE, LOOK AT THE IMBALANCE WE HAVE WITH JAPAN. IT WILL END, FOLKS. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE SMART PEOPLE NOW. WE'RE GOING TO MAKE GREAT DEALS AND FAIR DEALS AND GET ALONG GREAT WITH JAPAN. WE'RE GOING TO GET ALONG BETTER WITH THESE COUNTRIES AND THEY'RE GOING TO TREAT US FAIRLY. AND WE HAVE ALL OF THE CARDS. JUST REMEMBER THAT. WE'RE THE PIGGY BANK. BUT THEY ARE GOING TO BREAK OUR PIGGY BANK VERY SOON. BUT WITH THE PIGGY BANK, THEY TAKE THE MONEY OUT. WE HAVE REBUILT CHINA. THE MONEY THEY'VE TAKEN OUT OF THIS COUNTRY, I MEAN THEY HAVE TRAINS THAT CAN HE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. THEY HAVE HIGHWAYS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. PLACES OUTSIDE OF THIS COUNTRY IN THE MIDDLE EAST, DIFFERENT PLACES HAVE AIRPORTS THAT WE CAN ONLY DREAM ABOUT. WE USED TO BE AT THE TOP. NOW WE'RE LIKE A THIRD-WORLD COUNTRY. SO HERE IS WHAT I SAY. WE'RE GOING TO START WINNING AGAIN. WE'RE GOING TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO PROUD OF YOUR COUNTRY. WE'RE GOING TO WIN SO MUCH. YOU'RE GOING TO BE SO HAPPY. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR JOBS BACK. YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE YOUR PRIDE BACK. I OFTEN JOKE, YOU'LL BE CALLING UP MIKE PENCE, I DON'T KNOW WHETHER HE'S GOING TO BE YOUR GOVERNOR OR YOUR VICE PRESIDENT OR WHO THE HELL KNOWS. BUT YOU'RE GOING TO CALL UP -- GOOD MAN. BUT YOU'RE GOING TO CALL HIM AND YOU COULD EITHER SAY, GOVERNOR, OR VICE PRESIDENT, SIR, PLEASE, PLEASE SPEAK TO MR. TRUMP. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA, CANNOT STAND ALL OF THESE VICTORIES. WE CAN'T TAKE IT. WE'RE NOT USED TO IT. PLEASE, WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR MILITARY. WE'RE GOING TO BEAT ISIS. WE'RE WINNING ON TRADE. WE'RE WINNING AT THE BORDER. WE'RE STOPPING DRUGS FROM POURING IN. WE'RE WINNING ON EDUCATION. WE'RE WINNING WITH OUR SECOND AMENDMENT. PLEASE, PLEASE, MIKE, HELP US. WE'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. AND MIKE WILL COME TO SEE ME. AND SAY, MR. PRESIDENT, SIR, THEY'RE WINNING TOO MUCH. THE PEOPLE OF INDIANA CAN'T STAND IT. I SAY, MIKE, GO BACK AND TELL THEM, WE'RE NOT CHANGING A DAMN THING. WE'RE GOING TO KEEP WINNING. AND WE'RE GOING TO WIN AT EVERY LEVEL. AND WE ARE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA SO GREAT AGAIN, WE'RE GOING TO MAKE AMERICA GREATER THAN EVER BEFORE. I LOVE YOU INDIANA. THANK YOU FOR ALL OF YOUR HELP. YOU'RE REALLY SPECIAL PEOPLE. THANK YOU. WE LOVE YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH, EVERYBODY. THANK YOU. THANK YOU.
7/11/2016
6/28/2016
It is great to be here. I’d like to thank Alumisource and all the amazing workers here for hosting us. Today, I am going to talk about how to Make America Wealthy Again.
We are thirty miles from Steel City. Pittsburgh played a central role in building our nation.
The legacy of Pennsylvania steelworkers lives in the bridges, railways and skyscrapers that make up our great American landscape.
But our workers’ loyalty was repaid with betrayal.
Our politicians have aggressively pursued a policy of globalization – moving our jobs, our wealth and our factories to Mexico and overseas.
Globalization has made the financial elite who donate to politicians very wealthy. But it has left millions of our workers with nothing but poverty and heartache.
When subsidized foreign steel is dumped into our markets, threatening our factories, the politicians do nothing.
For years, they watched on the sidelines as our jobs vanished and our communities were plunged into depression-level unemployment.
Many of these areas have still never recovered.
Our politicians took away from the people their means of making a living and supporting their families.
Skilled craftsmen and tradespeople and factory workers have seen the jobs they loved shipped thousands of miles away.
Many Pennsylvania towns once thriving and humming are now in a state despair.
This wave of globalization has wiped out our middle class.
It doesn’t have to be this way. We can turn it all around – and we can turn it around fast.
But if we’re going to deliver real change, we’re going to have to reject the campaign of fear and intimidation being pushed by powerful corporations, media elites, and political dynasties.
The people who rigged the system for their benefit will do anything – and say anything – to keep things exactly as they are.
The people who rigged the system are supporting Hillary Clinton because they know as long as she is in charge nothing will ever change.
The inner cities will remain poor.
The factories will remain closed.
The borders will remain open.
The special interests will remain firmly in control.
Hillary Clinton and her friends in global finance want to scare America into thinking small – and they want to scare the American people out of voting for a better future.
READ: How Donald Trump Says He’d Win America’s Trade War
Top U.S. Labor Leader Blasts Donald Trump in Dueling Speeches
My campaign has the opposite message.
I want you to imagine how much better your life can be if we start believing in America again.
I want you to imagine how much better our future can be if we declare independence from the elites who’ve led us to one financial and foreign policy disaster after another.
Our friends in Britain recently voted to take back control of their economy, politics and borders.
I was on the right side of that issue – with the people – while Hillary, as always, stood with the elites, and both she and president Obama predicted that one wrong.
Now it’s time for the American people to take back their future.
That’s the choice we face. We can either give in to Hillary Clinton’s campaign of fear, or we can choose to Believe In America.
We lost our way when we stopped believing in our country.
America became the world’s dominant economy by becoming the world’s dominant producer.
The wealth this created was shared broadly, creating the biggest middle class the world had ever known.
But then America changed its policy from promoting development in America, to promoting development in other nations.
We allowed foreign countries to subsidize their goods, devalue their currencies, violate their agreements, and cheat in every way imaginable.
Trillions of our dollars and millions of our jobs flowed overseas as a result.
I have visited cities and towns across this country where a third or even half of manufacturing jobs have been wiped out in the last 20 years.
Today, we import nearly $800 billion more in goods than we export.
This is not some natural disaster. It is politician-made disaster.
It is the consequence of a leadership class that worships globalism over Americanism.
This is a direct affront to our Founding Fathers, who wanted America to be strong, independent and free.
Our Founding Fathers Understood Trade
George Washington said that “the promotion of domestic manufactur[ing] will be among the first consequences to flow from an energetic government.”
Alexander Hamilton spoke frequently of the “expediency of encouraging manufactur[ing] in the United States.” The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned that: “The abandonment of the protective policy by the American government… must produce want and ruin among our people.”
Our original Constitution did not even have an income tax. Instead, it had tariffs – emphasizing taxation of foreign, not domestic, production.
Yet today, 240 years after the Revolution, we have turned things completely upside-down.
We tax and regulate and restrict our companies to death, then we allow foreign countries that cheat to export their goods to us tax-free.
As a result, we have become more dependent on foreign countries than ever before.
Ladies and Gentlemen, it’s time to declare our economic independence once again.
That means reversing two of the worst legacies of the Clinton years.
America has lost nearly one-third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997 – even as the country has increased its population by 50 million people.
At the center of this catastrophe are two trade deals pushed by Bill and Hillary Clinton.
First, the North American Free Trade Agreement, or NAFTA. Second, China’s entry into the World Trade Organization.
NAFTA was the worst trade deal in history, and China’s entrance into the World Trade Organization has enabled the greatest jobs theft in history.
It was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA in 1993, and Hillary Clinton who supported it.
It was also Bill Clinton who lobbied for China’s disastrous entry into the World Trade Organization, and Hillary Clinton who backed that terrible agreement.
Then, as Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton stood by idly while China cheated on its currency, added another trillion dollars to our trade deficits, and stole hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property.
The city of Pittsburgh, and the State of Pennsylvania, have lost one-third of their manufacturing jobs since the Clintons put China into the WTO.
Fifty thousand factories across America have shut their doors in that time.
Almost half of our entire manufacturing trade deficit in goods with the world is the result of trade with China.
It was also Hillary Clinton, as Secretary of State, who shoved us into a job-killing deal with South Korea in 2012.
As reported by the Economic Policy Institute in May, this deal doubled our trade deficit with South Korea and destroyed nearly 100,000 American jobs.
As Bernie Sanders said, Hillary Clinton “Voted for virtually every trade agreement that has cost the workers of this country millions of jobs.”
Trade reform, and the negotiation of great trade deals, is the quickest way to bring our jobs back.
To understand why trade reform creates jobs, we need to understand how all nations grow and prosper.
Massive trade deficits subtract directly from our Gross Domestic Product.
From 1947 to 2001 – a span of over five decades – our inflation-adjusted gross domestic product grew at a rate of 3.5%.
However, since 2002 – the year after we fully opened our markets to Chinese imports – that GDP growth rate has been cut almost in half.
What does this mean for Americans? For every one percent of GDP growth we fail to generate in any given year, we also fail to create over one million jobs.
America’s “job creation deficit” due to slower growth since 2002 is well over 20 million jobs – and that’s just about the number of jobs our country needs right now to put America back to work at decent wages.
The Transpacific-Partnership is the greatest danger yet.
The TPP would be the death blow for American manufacturing.
It would give up all of our economic leverage to an international commission that would put the interests of foreign countries above our own.
It would further open our markets to aggressive currency cheaters. It would make it easier for our trading competitors to ship cheap subsidized goods into U.S. markets – while allowing foreign countries to continue putting barriers in front of our exports.
The TPP would lower tariffs on foreign cars, while leaving in place the foreign practices that keep American cars from being sold overseas. The TPP even created a backdoor for China to supply car parts for automobiles made in Mexico.
The agreement would also force American workers to compete directly against workers from Vietnam, one of the lowest wage countries on Earth.
Not only will the TPP undermine our economy, but it will undermine our independence.
The TPP creates a new international commission that makes decisions the American people can’t veto.
These commissions are great Hillary Clinton’s Wall Street funders who can spend vast amounts of money to influence the outcomes.
It should be no surprise then that Hillary Clinton, according to Bloomberg, took a “leading part in drafting the Trans-Pacific Partnership”.
She praised or pushed the TPP on 45 separate occasions, and even called it the “gold standard”.
Hillary Clinton was totally for the TPP just a short while ago, but when she saw my stance, which is totally against, she was shamed into saying she would be against it too – but have no doubt, she will immediately approve it if it is put before her, guaranteed.
She will do this just as she has betrayed American workers for Wall Street throughout her career.
Here’s how it would go: she would make a small token change, declare the pact fixed, and ram it through.
That’s why Hillary is now only saying she has problems with the TPP “in its current form,” – ensuring that she can rush to embrace it again at her earliest opportunity.
If the media doesn’t believe me, I have a challenge for you. Ask Hillary Clinton if she is willing to withdraw from the TPP her first day in office and unconditionally rule out its passage in any form.
There is no way to “fix” the TPP. We need bilateral trade deals. We do not need to enter into another massive international agreement that ties us up and binds us down.
A Trump Administration will change our failed trade policy – quickly
Here are 7 steps I would pursue right away to bring back our jobs.
One: I am going to withdraw the United States from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which has not yet been ratified.
Two: I’m going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight on behalf of American workers.
Three: I’m going to direct the Secretary of Commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements a foreign country is currently using to harm our workers. I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under American and international law to end these abuses.
Four: I’m going tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that agreement to get a better deal for our workers. And I don’t mean just a little bit better, I mean a lot better. If they do not agree to a renegotiation, then I will submit notice under Article 2205 of the NAFTA agreement that America intends to withdraw from the deal.
Five: I am going to instruct my Treasury Secretary to label China a currency manipulator. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take advantage of the United States will be met with sharply
Six: I am going to instruct the U.S. Trade Representative to bring trade cases against China, both in this country and at the WTO. China’s unfair subsidy behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance to the WTO, and I intend to enforce those rules.
Seven: If China does not stop its illegal activities, including its theft of American trade secrets, I will use every lawful presidential power to remedy trade disputes, including the application of tariffs consistent with Section 201 and 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 and Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962.
President Reagan deployed similar trade measures when motorcycle and semiconductor imports threatened U.S. industry. His tariff on Japanese motorcycles was 45% and his tariff to shield America’s semiconductor industry was 100%.
Hillary Clinton, and her campaign of fear, will try to spread the lie that these actions will start a trade war. She has it completely backwards.
Hillary Clinton unleashed a trade war against the American worker when she supported one terrible trade deal after another – from NAFTA to China to South Korea.
A Trump Administration will end that war by getting a fair deal for the American people.
The era of economic surrender will finally be over.
A new era of prosperity will finally begin.
America will be independent once more.
Under a Trump Presidency, the American worker will finally have a President who will protect them and fight for them.
We will stand up to trade cheating anywhere and everywhere it threatens an American job.
We will make America the best place in the world to start a business, hire workers, and open a factory.
This includes massive tax reform to lift the crushing burdens on American workers and businesses.
We will also get rid of wasteful rules and regulations which are destroying our job creation capacity.
Many people think that these regulations are an even greater impediment than the fact that we are one of the highest taxed nations in the world.
We are also going to fully capture America’s tremendous energy capacity. This will create vast profits for our workers and begin reducing our deficit. Hillary Clinton wants to shut down energy production and shut down the mines.
A Trump Administration will also ensure that we start using American steel for American infrastructure.
Just like the American steel from Pennsylvania that built the Empire State building.
It will be American steel that will fortify American’s crumbling bridges.
It will be American steel that sends our skyscrapers soaring into the sky.
It will be American steel that rebuilds our inner cities.
It will be American hands that remake this country, and it will be American energy – mined from American resources – that powers this country.
It will be American workers who are hired to do the job.
We are going to put American-produced steel back into the backbone of our country. This alone will create massive numbers of jobs.
On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy, we are going to put America First again.
We are going to make America wealthy again.
We are going to reject Hillary Clinton’s politics of fear, futility, and incompetence.
We are going to embrace the possibilities of change.
It is time to believe in the future.
It is time to believe in each other.
It is time to Believe In America.
This Is How We Are Going To Make America Great Again – For All Americans.
We Are Going To Make America Great Again For Everyone – Greater Than Ever Before.
Thank you. 
